WEBVTTKind: captionsLanguage: en- As a quick intro,Reed Hastings is widelyknown within the Valleyas being one of the mostprincipled, purposeful,rigorous in his analysis and intelligenceabout being a founder and being a CEO.
He gets requests all thetime to join people's boards,including mine eight yearsago, or whatever that was,which he was like, "Hey,I'm focused on education.
"Go away."Which is a part of focus,is one of the things thatmakes Reed unusually strong.
So, we are extraordinarilylucky to have himwith us here today.
And I think what I willopen with is another pieceof something where you are famous for,which is the Netflix cultureand the Culture Deck.
How did the first CultureDeck end up coming about,getting published?There's version two, which we'll get to,but what led to thatcreation of that deck,the publication of it?What was that as an act ofmanagement, thought leadership?- It wasn't a pre-read,so there's no pressure on it,but how many people have already read it?Netflix Culture Deck.
Okay, that's fine.
Thank you.
So, about eight years ago,we were getting tired ofnew employees joining,and I would meet withall the new employeesand go through this 100-page slide deck.
And two out of three reallygot it and understood,and their managers had properlydescribed to them Netflix,and one out of three were in shock,because the deck had someaggressive statements like,"Adequate performance getsa generous severance package,"and "We're a team, not a family."And so, if you know that going in,you can love it.
But if you don't know itand you didn't expect it,you feel bait-and-switched.
And so the big driver was we realizedevery candidate should get it,and that, of course, if everycandidate's gonna get it,it's gonna be public,so let's just make it public.
- Was the construction ofit a way to essentially,as you're doing scale tokind of keep a cultural normas you scaled?Was that one of the centraltools for doing that?- Yes.
I wouldn't quite say keep a cultural norm,but it was to share and debate.
One of the great things aboutputting things in writingis that it makes it more debatable,and so it's not just hearinga sermon and it's like,"Okay, that's nice,"but you can comment on,"You know, this part herethat we wrote down doesn'treally seem appropriate,or doesn't seem what we do."To some degree it's a billof rights for employees,which is "Here's a set ofthings that we, the company,want to and aspire to operate by,and if we don't,you can call us on it."And then we'll either fixthe articulation becauseit's too easy to misunderstand,or live up to what we want to.
So, in some ways it's aspirational,and then by putting it in writing,which probably startedfive years before that,it allows all the people in the companyto collaborate on it andto suggest improvements.
- And what other things do you doto keep a healthy culture at scale?What are the other kind of techniquesin addition to the deck,in addition of the on-boarding?- Yeah I would say in ourfirst couple of years,so we're founded about20 years ago in '97,to when we went public in 2002,all we were concerned withis not going bankrupt,because the first biginternet recession was 2001,and so we had built up a big expense ratecontingent on future financing.
NASDAQ fell 75% that year,and all the venture capitalsfelt over-leveraged.
They were barely gonna be able to supporttheir existing investments.
Certainly no one wantedto take on new ones.
The year before, in 2000,to raise money was as easyas taking a tin can and shaking itand like $50,000,000would show up in the can.
It was incredible.
I've never seen anythinglike it until last year.
And then the followingyear after the crash,you take your tin can out and shake it,and someone would steal the can.
So, it was an enormouslysharp and short change,which is why you see so muchtalk today about bubble.
No one cares about the bubble,they care about the fall.
So, suddenly we didn't have enough money,we had to lay off a thirdof the company in 2001,and we eked into profitabilityand survived.
But until that point,we really spent all the time just onhow are we gonna get the business to be,we were DVD by mail at the time.
So, it was, how is it gonna be profitable?And only after 2002 we realized,"Wow, we're gonna survive."Then we started to think,"Wow, it would be awfulto not want to work here,so we should try to figureout what cultural attributeswere there of what we wanted to work in."We didn't set out to try to say,"What's the most theoreticallyefficient culture?"in some abstract sense,it was literally about us,and we realized that what we valued most,even more than success,was working with really talentedpeople in a productive way.
That that joy ofexcellence was incredible.
And of course if you can getthat joy of people excellenceand talent density,then you're very likely to win.
So, they come together,but at the core it wasabout having dense talent.
And part of it was,after we did this one third layoff,it was 120 people to 80,we had expected tobasically grind to a haltand really not be ableto make any improvements,cause it would take 80 peoplejust to keep the lights on.
But, in fact, we got moredone with only 80 people,and we tried to figure out why.
And we realized now there wasno dummy-proofing necessary,and so it was justeverybody was going fastand everything was right.
And so, we realized withthe right density of talent,there's very little process needed,and that that was the joyful thing.
So, at first we said,"Let's do a one third layoff every year."That that was the key.
- That's a long-term winning strategy.
- That's a long-term winning, it might be.
Back to the blitzscaling thing.
And then we realized.
- Shrinking, we're gonna now add.
- Blitz shrinking.
Well, you want your gross heads to be 100%and just your net adds are less.
But talent density matters so much.
So, then we figured,"No, let's not do a layoffevery year like that.
Let's just do continued focus."And the big evolution wecame to is for managers,they have to each year testifyfor each of their peoplethat if that person were trying to quit,they would try to change their mind.
And so, it's up to the manager to decide,"Yes, I would want to change their mind,"but sometimes you find thatyou have people working for youand if they quit you'd be like,"That's pretty good."And that's the case thatwe wanted to proactively,not wait for them to quit,but proactively give them agenerous severance package.
- Yeah, and that's how Icome to the Culture Deck.
In addition to performance,cause this is,actually I'm to some degree,leading the witness on thisor leading the question,but what were the key thingsabout establishing that culturewhich enabled you to scale?Because this is the highly-aligned,loosely-coupled part of yourversion two of the deck.
- So, I think when we went publicwe were 150 people by then,and people worried internally.
Now that we're public,everything's gonna go to shit,because so many companies had done that:put in a lot of process,be very cautious, etc.
And we've made great progressreally every year of pushing back on thatand doing somethingeither symbolic or realthat increased employee freedom.
Essentially incented morevariance in what we're doing,and we realized if we'regonna run really loose,like very little rules,then you do want to set a broad context.
So, we set context,and this is what Reid's referring to,which is we added essentiallya chapter to our Slide Deck,which is "Context, Not Control."And so, we try to get managers to inspireand lead people ratherthan micromanage them,and they inspire and lead themthrough setting the context.
"What are we trying to do?What are the constraints?Is it a really big problemor a little problem?Must be done right, or wedo an approximate versionand fix later?"There's a lot of contextto any problem area.
And if you get good at setting context,than you don't have todirect the micro-specifics.
But it's an art.
So, there's context about the problem,and then there's context about behavior,which is really the culture.
Which is, "what are the behavioral normsin terms of honesty andsharing and forthrightness?"- And in terms of setting the context,one of the things when I read,we've actually never talked aboutthe version two of the deck,and when I read that andcompared and contrastand looked at it, I was like,"Alright well one of the keythings is people usually wantcommand and control."And you have an exemptionsslide on the control,but people usually wannabe able to do something,like a bold new innovationusually requires somebody going,"This is my idea, I'm driving it home."How does setting the contextand that kind of innovation,how do those line up andwhat do you do about that?- Well, I think you might be mixing,the manager shares a lot of context,but a lot of people make decisions.
We definitely have decision owners.
There's almost nothing by consensus,but you gotta know the contextand then you make decisionsand a lot of things happenthat I don't even know about,about different deals ordifferent things or hiring.
You guys are gonna get luckyand meet with Marisa in a week or two,and one of the things that saddened mewhen she went to Yahoo,which was very brave of her to do,was this idea that she wasgonna review every resuméto raise the bar on hiring.
And to me that's a suicidal methodologyfor a senior executive becauseyou got a thousand peopleand you're so tactically buried tryingto do a thousand resumés.
And I think what she was going for,and you can ask her,is a symbol of, "I careabout the details."A better way, there arebetter ways to do symbols.
I don't review resumés,I don't block hires.
I look at it as my job isto evangelize the benefitsof super-great talent density.
But we don't even try to hire perfectly,because when you are interviewing,it's six or eight hours with someone.
It's something,but you know them so much betterafter they've been in for three months,so I'm like,"If you have an instinctyou wanna try, try."Take the person in.
If it doesn't work out,we'll give them the severance packageand we'll move onand it's not the end of the world.
So, we're experimentalwith people in the same wayyou might be experimentalwith a product featureor something.
And it's important to be honestwith a person when you're doing that.
But we don't look at it as a marriage.
There's no need to,and that's essentially anadaptation to the growth.
- Well, actually I thinkwhat Marissa's trying to doa little bit, because we had Eric in herea couple of weeks ago.
Three weeks ago.
Anyway and part of whatEric was expressingabout how they builtthe Google culture was,"You guys should only hirepeople with certain kindsof degrees from certainkinds of Universities,"where they were actually, in fact,reviewing every resumé, every CD before.
I think she's like, "Okay, we gotta getto that kind of setting of the bar."And that actually kind ofleads naturally to one of the.
- But that's mistaken in so many ways.
First of all, it's tryingto do it the Google way,which even, anyway.
- Well, that's precisely thequestion I was getting to,which is there are other attemptsat building strong cultures.
Google is one of them.
How would you kind of compare and contrastso people understand that there isn't justNetflix is the only strong culture,but here is some way of understandingthe variances between strong cultures?- Well, I think the key thing,and it's a great point,is there are many different cultures,and as long as you're reallyclear about your culture,you can get the employeeswho love that culture.
And not everyone will be the same fit.
There are some things, like integrity,that are pretty universal.
But there are other thingsof how to deal with dissent,where there's perfectlyreasonable different waysand effective differentways of dealing with things.
So, the literature onculture is pretty clearthat strong cultures work,and weak cultures are diffused.
So, in a weak culture,it's really a diverse culture.
You get many peopleacting very differently,and then they don't understand each otherand they feel undercut and political.
Even in a, let's take a Hollywood studiothat many of you wouldnot like to work in,they have a very clearsystem of how to operatein terms of how they manage the politics,and it's internally consistent.
And everybody knows itand the people who get good at it love it,and a lot of people don't.
It's not inherently awful or ineffective,it just wasn't right, say, for us.
So, that's why I thinkculture is an expressionof what you and yoursenior team want to be.
It's a bit aspirational in that way.
- Is part of the interviewing process,do you have essentially a culture check?- Yes, but not like a checklist.
Culture is always somethingthat we interview forof kind of curiosity.
It's easy to find people who say,"Oh, I've read the Netflix Culture Deck.
I love it, I really wanna be there."What's harder is,"What are the main thingsyou disagree with and why?"When we get a blank stare, we're like,"Okay, not really afirst principle thinker."And when they say,"Well, I thought the waythat you didn't talkabout how to acculturate,"and "if I'm not greaton day three, am I outor do you look at it like an athletewhere it's over some timeperiod to prove yourself?And if so, what's that time period,and why haven't you clarified that?"Then, we're like "Oh, yeahthat's a good insight."First principle thinker.
So, we're looking forpeople who are curious,typically self-confident,and they're questioningeverything around them.
- Last culture question before we move onto some of the other kindof interesting lessons from Netflix,missions.
So, I think you can onlyhave a strong culturewhen you actually have amission in the company.
How do you define the Netflix mission,and how is that kind ofembodied in the strategy,in the work-play?- Well, I would say I've always believedthat a strong missionstatement is really important,and I have to say we'venever succeeded at it.
It's like this odd thing.
We've had them every year for 15 years,and they're constantly different,and now we're all so cynical.
We're like, "Come on, we'retrying to make people happy."I mean, that's the fundamentalthing in consumer service.
We're trying to be better,and us and Disney and missionaren't that different.
There's a bunch ofdifferent tactics at it,but we're an emotional product.
We cater to the things that areimportant but not necessary,and I love that part about it,cause when you're sellingmilk or penicillin,you're selling something somebody needsand we get to sell something you wantthat you choose to dobecause it's really humanto be entertained and connectto people over entertainment.
And so, we celebrate that a lotand we want to change the industry,but in terms of a mission statementlike so many companies have,Facebook talks about a moreconnected and open world,and then you see that phraseagain and again and again,and it's a powerful mantra.
We don't have an equivalentand I think we probablywould've been stronger if we do.
In the early days it was to connect peoplewith movies they'll love.
And it's okay, but it's kind of likea long, kind of awkward phrase,"Connect people with movies they'll love."It's just not punchy.
We used it, we had t-shirts.
And then it didn't really motivate anyone.
It didn't really stick.
But we knew we were tryingto make people happy with DVD's.
And then, eventually it wasstreaming and original content.
So, it didn't hold us back much.
- So, let's go on to someof the lessons from Netflix.
So, if you were to call ayounger version of yourselfand tell yourself to do,what key lessons that you would dodifferently through Netflix,through the history of Netflix.
Obviously, you've been a founderof companies before Rational et cetera.
But what were the key lessons you would,"This is an inflection thing thatI wish I had done differently?"- We went public in 2002,growing nicely in '03 and '04,and Blockbuster which thenwas 20 times larger than us,finally counter-attacked and in a.
- I'm just curious, howmany people, raise your handif you know what Blockbuster is.
- Oh, they know what it is (laughs).
- It's not quite.
- [Reed] A more accurate question was,"Do you remember actually renting a DVD?And Redbox is still quite popular.
In '03 and '04, we're growing really fast.
'05 Blockbuster attacks.
And so we thought we were very clever.
We came up with a numberof ways to counter-attack,and remember thateverybody's got every DVD,so Blockbuster and us hadthe same content offering,cause it's non-exclusivelicensing to get DVDs.
So we could differentiate.
On our service, fulfillmentlevels were 99%,and theirs were 89.
But that's a reallyabstract for a customer,thinking of signing updoesn't mean anything, right?And then they discounted massively,so it's like half our price.
And so, we were losing share.
So we were strugglingwith what to do about it.
So we did three or four big efforts.
One is in the end of '05we added Netflix Friends,which was our own social network.
Remember in '05 Facebook'sjust on a few universities.
So our own social networkamongst our members,and if you enabled each other,you could see what each otherwere renting and rating.
And we thought,"Wow, the viral effects ofthis would be really powerful,"et cetera.
We added ad sales.
Back in the day it waslike Yahoo type banners,and we sold bannersabove the choosing interface.
We added used DVD saleson our site to consumers.
Of course we had some excessDVDs from four years ago,so we added an operation tosell them for four bucks a pop.
It's a different logistics,but we added all that.
And we added Red Envelope Entertainment,which was a group that we brought into buy films out of Sundanceand similar festivalsto then publish them on DVDs,so getting into content.
So we did these four efforts.
And each one was adozen people, 15 people,and made us feel great.
Employees loved them becausehere was a tangible thingthat was not just 98% versus 89%.
Here was the thing that theycouldn't do or weren't doing,and it was a differentiator, right?And wasn't management so clever?We went through these wavesof battles in '06 and '07,and in the end we won.
They ended up closingdown their online thing,and two years later goingcompletely bankrupt.
But we looked back andnone of those four effortsmade any contribution to our victory.
And one by one, we had closedthem down along the way,every single one of those four.
And so, in hindsight, werealized when attacked,we should retreat to do the core betterand not try to broaden thesurface of attack, essentially.
And it was a great lesson for us of focus,So now when people say,"Aren't you getting into news or sports?"we're like, "Absolutely not,"and we're really confident in our answer.
Movies and T.V. shows on a global basis,enormous market.
And so we're much lesssubject to being proneto go off and chase the shiny objectto try to have something inthe checklist to differentiate,and to trust.
And in hindsight if we had just gonefrom 98% perfect to 99.9%,we would've done a lotmore for the business.
And it's hard work.
It's operational logistics,how to get DVDs not to break,the amount of polycarbonateanalysis we had to do,it was all this stuff.
We would've beaten Blockbustersooner than we did.
And so that's one of the greatlessons out of that time.
- What about a Qwikster?- Yeah, Qwikster we gotsome lessons out of.
So, I'll give you some context.
Now that we're growing, '07, '08, '09,we're adding streaming,it's a hybrid plan,you've got DVDs and streaming.
'010 we launch in Canadaas a test, in a way,of both international and streaming only,cause there's no DVDs.
And we expected x and wegot 10x bigger reactionand customer signups than we expected.
I mean, it was just massiveeven though it was juststreaming, no DVDs,and we realized, "Oh my God.
"You don't need DVDs."- Wasn't that part of theplan from the beginning?- Well, we were always gonnause them as a hybrid way.
This was our differentiator against Hulu,because Hulu was aboutequal size at the time.
"But we have DVDs too."That's our differentiator.
"We're streaming and DVDs."Which was gonna be compelling,was compelling to half the market,but was gonna be compellingto a shrinking percentageof the market every year.
So, it's not what you wantyour brand image to be around,so we realized,"Wow, we cannot afford to use the crutchof DVD now because pure streaming worksand so we wanna win as the bestplace to do pure streaming,not be the best place to do hybrid,because that wasn't a long-term benefit."So, we had to not rely on DVD.
So, I think correctly, weseparated the two businesses.
The huge mistake we made,because remember, in 2010we're in the middle of arecession still pretty deep,as we said,"Well, $8 is a goodprice for the DVD plan,it's a good price for the streaming plan,so the combination, whichis $16, is the new price."And the old price was 10 bucks.
So from the customer standpoint,one day the price went up 60%in the middle of a recession,and now they had to dealwith two user interfaces instead of one.
So, this was not well regarded,and if we had donegrandfathering on the pricefor a couple of yearsit would've been fine.
Now, fortunately we realized,"Wow, we've got to make amends."But now a lot of people have left usand changing the price would be hard,but the symbol of Qwikster was much hatedeven though the nametested quite positivelybefore we did this,it had attracted a lot of negative.
So, if we killed the symbol,maybe people would forgive us.
And so that's why we killed Qwikster.
And people mostly forgaveus and we moved on.
- And one of the thingsI learned from that,from you when you were doing that,is I actually thought thatyour letter to the publicon the blog was actually masterfully done.
It was personal, it was open.
Was that just a naturalreflex as part of leadershipto write that kind of letter and make itas an open statement about,"Look, we need to over-communicate,we need to be humble,"or was that somethingthat kind of was a resultof a ton of internal discussion about howto do crisis management?- Well, I think everyonewho has both Oxfordand Stanford degrees loved that letter.
- Oh.
(audience laughs)So, I loved that letter.
- Yes.
No, in hindsightit actually was a very bone-headed movefor your typical consumer (laughs)because it was.
- New lesson.
- It was an explanationof basically why we neededto do this thing andthey didn't really care.
It was about our survival,blah, blah, blah.
So there was a few more peoplethan just you that liked it,but by and largeit was tone-deaf consumer marketing,because they didn't hate the letter,it had some positives of being authentic,but it just stirred things up.
And a better thing would've just beento change the situationi.e. Qwikster or whatever,as opposed to get into these.
It's just too intellectual.
- So, if streaming wasn'tpart of the initial plan,what was the initial plan?Was it just DVDs?- No, streaming was.
In '87 I took Tannenbaum'snetworking class here,and I don't know if theystill use the same textbookor some adaptation of it,but you have to calculate thebandwidth of a station wagonfilled with backup tapesdriving across the country.
And of course it turns outto be terabits per secondand it's got a high latency, three days,to get any bit to the east coast.
But it's super efficientdigital distribution network.
And in '97 when someone showed me DVD,it was the first time I had seen it,I was like, "Oh my God,that's the station wagon.
That's five gigabytes onthis one ounce plastic disc,and I'll bet you can mail that."And there's my network,there's my station wagon.
And so, we always conceived of DVD by mailas a digital distributionnetwork with high latency.
And someday we'd use theinternet to take the latency out.
And early internet was more expensiveto deliver five gigs than mail.
It only took another threeof four years of Moore's Lawto make that cross over.
But we always conceivedof DVD as temporary,internet streaming as the long-term.
- Was there anything in the initial planthat turned out to be radically wrongthat your engagementwith the market changed?- Yeah in '97 when we werefirst seeking funding,we thought it would be mostlystreaming in five years,by 2002.
And in 2002, there was nothing.
It was still dial-up.
AOL was, the company was in trouble,but dial-up was still king.
And so, around then saidby within five years,streaming will be half our business.
And by 2007 it was still zero.
So we said once more the next five yearsit's gonna be half our business.
And we were wrong but the other way.
The next five years it was like 60%.
So we just kept repeating the same thing,and eventually it turned out right.
- Yeah, one of the things that I sometimeslike to say about predictions isthe only prediction about the futurethat is generally trueis that most predictionsof the future are false,but it's the paradoxes.
A number of people hereare actually entrepreneurs,some of them are applyingat certain companies.
Is there anything in the financing processfor early Netflix,lessons you learned that you would redolike in terms of howyou ran the financing?- More relevant, I think.
I graduated in '88.
Worked at a research lab,worked at a networking company,worked at a startup that failedwhere I was just a hardcore engineer.
And then I had an idea.
And you really want to dothe entrepreneurial thingwhen you have the right idea.
There's no point of deciding,"I'm gonna do it this yearwith the best idea I've got."You're probably gonna have crap results.
And so it's when some ideais just shaking you so hardthat you'll go into povertyto see that idea materialized.
And the idea is really important to you.
And then you change your lifeto become an entrepreneurto do the idea.
And so the concept or whateverit is that you have has to,and it's good to constantlybe thinking aboutwhat could that concept be,but I would approach it that way.
So, my first company was funded.
20 people, 20k a piece.
So broader family andfriends and angel round.
Only one or two semi-professional.
No one close to Sam Altmanor someone like that.
It was a little lessdeveloped 20 years agoin the ecosystem.
On that money, we wereable to launch a product,get some initial traction,and then we got our first venture capital,which was the predecessor toBenchmark, Merill Pickard,and Mayfield.
And that worked out, Iwould say, very well.
We got people that wetrusted and really helped usgrow the business.
So I had an enormously positiveventure capital experiencein that way.
And what you realize ismany third party vendorsand banks and things,they will screw with your companybecause they don't really care.
But they care a lot about their reputationwith your board members.
And your board members,when they're venture capitalists,become the guarantor thatyou won't get screwed with.
At least, much less anyway.
Because their long-term reputationis with your board members,not with you, typically.
And so that's a big, subtle value add.
In Netflix's case, I can self-fund,I had done well enoughon the first companywhich got sold in '97 that I self-fundedthe first couple of rounds.
So it's not relevant, probably,for a typical situation.
In hindsight, we wishwe had done more debtand less equity, and youknow the cardinal things.
- The prediction from success.
- Yes, that's right.
Nothing too dramatic.
- How about your first hires?How would you think about,cause you've now done this twice,both times successfully.
Once massively successfully.
How do you think about thefirst five to ten people?How do you think about doing that hiring?How do you run it?- It's people you wanna work with,but you can't be afraid to change.
You can't let friendship get in the wayof professional judgement.
So, you've always gotta be thinking,"Do I have the right team?"and, "I owe it to the wholeteam, to the marketplace,to my investors, to myself,to do what I think is theright thing for the company."And when I was first a CEO,I'd never managed anyone,so I'd never written a reviewfor anyone or anything,because I was an individual engineer.
I found a lot of thosecommunication things difficult,and in particular I couldn'tpossible fire someone.
It felt so cruel, it felt inhuman.
It's like breaking up witha girlfriend or boyfriendor something, but worse.
It felt awful because it was selfish.
So, it took me probably three years beforeI came to a view that I had.
And the rest of the companywas depending on me,to do the right thing.
And that it wasn't about me being selfishand pushing the person out,it was about me protecting the company.
And once I could neutralizethe value scales that way,I could comfortably say to someone,"I'm sorry for this, but Ithink it's best for the companyif we end your employment."And once it was, "And I thinkit's best for the company,"I could get there.
Now, many of you areprobably more sophisticated,more mature, you've broken upwith more partners (laughter)so it's easier for you,cause it just takes practice.
We don't get enough practice in that.
- Actually, there's a bookI recommend to people,which I don't know if you've encountered,by Fred Kofman called"Conscious Business."And I'll get you a copy, butit's actually very similarwhich is thinking about compassionand compassion management.
The compassion is notonly to the individual,the compassion is to the company.
The compassion is to the customers.
The compassion to the shareholders.
You actually have tointegrate all that compassion,and once you're doing that,that actually makes the,"Oh, yeah I understandthis is painful for you,but actually, in fact, it'sstill a compassionate act."And that was actuallyone of the things I foundreally good in how Fredthinks about these things.
- Yeah, and I think one part of compassionis a severance package,because when you cut someone looseand it's a week or two of pay,it really can be difficult for them,but our minimum is four monthsand it goes up from there.
So, even if two weeks in we realizethere's a mistake,as long as the person hasn'tlied to us or somethingbut we've made a mistake,they get a four month severance package.
And that does a couple of things.
One, it makes the personfeel better about itcause they know it's amaterial amount of money.
And again, four months is the minimum.
And two, we get a legalrelease in exchange for that.
And so despite the factthat we've separated froma thousand people, maybe,we've never had an employee lawsuit,because of this.
And then third and most subtly,managers are really nice people.
They're human beings andthey're good with people,so they don't like doing mean things.
And so, you can thinkof the severance paymentas a bribe to the managerto do the right thing,because it makes it easier.
And without that, what they dois they put an employee on aperformance improvement plan,and then the two of them gothrough this excruciating dancewhere it takes two orthree or four months,and then they break up butit's clearly documented.
And that's just a lot worse.
So, that's why we avoid that.
And essentially we buy outand then the person's good.
They'll take a month or two off,and then they'll get snapped up somewhere.
- When did you start with thefour month severance package?- It was three monthsfrom the very beginning,- That's unusual for a startup.
- Yes.
It's real money,but it's worth it,because again, otherwise the person,it's costing you anyway.
It doesn't really cost you any more,because you're going tospend the three monthsmanaging the person out,and so you're gonna end up with that hit.
It's kind of a classic.
- All right, so let's...
actually, no.
One thing.
Has your hiring changed as you scaled?Like your hiring practices?Cause you're very familiarwith all blitzscaling piecesof how all these things changeat each different magnitude.
Was there anything notablewhen you look back at hiringthat you said, "Oh, theseare things we added inas we got to larger scales?"- No, I would say we have a very bigpeople judgement process.
Some companies try to standardizeand put a lot ofstatistics and analysis in,and we've never believed in that.
We say, about data, use a lot of datawhen you're picking stocks,but probably don't use a lot of datain picking a spouse.
That the more that you'rein an emotional elementand a gut feel element,the less useful data is.
And the more you want to really listento your intuition and judgement.
So, we spent a lot of time with candidatestrying to get them to talk and feel,but then we don't do likea how-long-did-it-take analysis,or I don't know.
Something like that.
And then, we do a lot on references.
I'm always stunned how many companiesdon't do good referencesand how many employees thatI don't get called about.
And I'm like, "Really?"You didn't even call?"And so, we're manic on, and always blind.
I mean, we never even askthe person for references.
There's this great tool,LinkedIn, (laughter)and so you can find the reference.
That has changed the game in references.
- So, let's go to some of the areaswhere Netflix has donesome very interesting,and actually unique strategies that,as far as I can tell noone else ever did them,and there may be additional onesto the ones I'm about to ask you about.
Bu let's start with the prizefor the recommendation algorithm.
Where you kind of said, "Okay,this is one of the mostimportant parts of our business.
Which other movies would you also see?How do we essentiallycrowdsource and get networkintelligence for the best possible ideas.
Let's do a prize."How was that conceived?How did it work?Would you do it again?Would you do it differently?- I'll tell you the story of it,but unforunately it's disappointingbecause it turns out that we did one,it was epic, and we've neverbeen able to do another.
So, it's not like a general purpose thingthat you can use a lot.
Once in a while,there's a problem that isamenable to outside analysis.
That one was.
We hit the right tones on it,it was transformative forNetflix in the machine-learningcommunity in 2007,and really helped move things up a notch.
And still today we getresidual goodwill from it.
And so of course we want todo prize two and prize threeand prize four,and we still have not foundeven a single other one problemthat was amenable to that kindof formalized architecture.
So, very specialty, exotictool as you grow companies.
- And say a little bitabout how you did the tool.
Is there anything you would've changed?I understand it's rare.
And then, what you got out of it.
- I didn't say it was an open contest.
We put out a data set, and it'slike, "Crack this data set.
to this, reducing the root meansquared error by 10%."And you could submit these attempts,because you're doing newalgorithms like in that,but you can think of it likecracking a cryptographic thing,or any of those like pay forbug bounties is a good onethat people doas an example of a crowdsource one.
But again, there are these little pocketswhere it's a workable solution.
- Did you end up gettinga better algorithm,or did you end up gettingmostly better goodwill?- Much bigger benefit in goodwill.
Some benefit, the algorithmworked and we put it in place,but then we grew past it.
So, it wasn't like apermanent step function,it was a one-time.
- So, now let's go to original content.
This is probably one of the thingsthat's probably most stunned most classicSilicon Valley people becausewe think we're good at tech.
That's what the talent base here is.
We're bad at content programming,that's what you go down to L.A. for.
It's the kind of thingwhere intensely engineeringand technology driven culturewill be intrinsically bad at this,because we'll be bad at people,we'll be bad at emotions.
And so when you start doing this,I think the general kindof "received wisdom"in the Valley was, "Oh, that's a mistake."And then, of course, you pull it out,you do it much more successfully thanAmazon, also doing it.
And then later a following.
And then other folks.
What led to the strategy?Why is it that you just literallytrounced conventional wisdom on this?What were the lessons from that?- I say Amazon is doinga pretty reasonable jobbut we can come to that.
Necessity is a mother of invention.
Every cable network.
FX, AMC, HBO,started on other people's contentand then got some scale in distribution.
And then went into doingtheir own original content.
So the path for Netflixwas well understoodlike other cable networks.
So it wasn't like,"Oh my God we never thought about this"kind of thing.
You get more differentiationand love and valuefrom if you did the content well.
Again we tried it earlyin 2005 on a DVD basis.
We only had five million subscribers.
And the economics were roughly for a movielike we got those cool MaggieGyllenhaal movie at Sundance.
We would have normally bought,suppose Sony Classics had bought the film.
We would have bought 20,000 DVD's at $20.
So $400,000.
But instead now we can buythe film for $2 millionand put $2 million to marketing it.
So we had ten times the cost.
And we still didn't needmore than 20,000 DVD's.
We're like,"Wow this sucks."(crowd laughs)Ten times as much!And meanwhile Sonybought some other movie,made it popular enough with our members,and we still had to buy the 20,000.
So we didn't really save anything right?And we realized,"We're just not nearly at scale."And we got out of it.
And then in 2010,we were spending enoughon the big-ticket TV showsfrom a licensing standpointthat my partner Ted Sarandos,who lives in L.A. said,"Now is the time."And we were like,"Oh my God are you crazy?"We're gonna put a $100million that was likea quarter of the content budget.
And he was like,"Don't worry I've negotiated.
We don't have to pay for it till 2013."(laughs)- Don't worry the billwill come to you later.
- The bill will come to you later.
It's due on arrival.
I'm like,"Oh yeah I feel great now."Man it was transformative.
So he picked incredibly for what we needand I don't get any credit for that.
That was all him.
And now Ted's built a teamfrom studios that are cherry pickings.
Some of the best people out of CBS, NBC,to do exactly that.
And they really know how to run shows.
And the main thing isthe cultural attributesthat we talked about before,context not control,freedom and responsibility.
Those have played extremelywell in our relationswith the show runners,with the producers.
And so it's been a very consistent model.
And it turns out that reallyour culture is designedat inspiring andmotivating creative peopleand you can create a software person.
Create a marketer.
Create a content producer.
It's really in the creative world.
And the creative world the hallmark is,"You do your best thinking in the shower."You have a huge idea.
The day after Thanksgivingon a mountain bike ridetrying to recover.
It's not like you need eight, ten,12, 15 hours in the officedoing something becausein the creative communityit's synthesizing all of these things.
And that's true in a number of fields.
- And is this,was the cost reason the reason you did?Cause I think all ofyour original content'sbeen TV shows not movies.
Or is it most?- Most.
We just had a big one,"Beasts of No Nation"was our first big movie.
And then we have one with Brad Pittnext year called "War Machine."- And was the reasonbecause of the cost of TV?The reason you focused on TV?Or was there a differentreason to initially focus onTV and then build there?- The economics of TV are much betterand there's too much capitalchasing movies becauseof it's historic legacy.
So the returns and the movie businessare just much harder to make money.
Yes, TV's less expensiveper hour typically,but not for any inherent reason.
Just cause that's what other people spend.
So to be as good as them,that's all you have to spend.
So it's really influx of capital.
And then of course when youfall in love with the show,then there's a built-inmarket for season two.
So that's a great thing.
- And how is the originalcontent playing now?What are the current things that areknocking out of the park?What have you learned from them?- Huge hit right now,"Master of None"anybody seen it?A couple, the rest of youhave got to go see it.
I'm telling you.
Watch the first two or three episodes.
Aziz Ansari and it'shis commentary on life.
And it's unbelievably funny.
And he casts his parents in itand gets away with it.
And it's both warm and delicious,and bitingand hugely original.
So that's our current one.
"Narcos" was a big one this summer.
Which was American companyus contracting withGaumont which is the oldest filmproducing company in the world.
It's a French company.
Filming in Bogota, Colombiawith Brazilian talent,and it's super popular in Germany.
(crowd laughs)- It's defined globalism.
- That's right, and so thisis why Netflix is racingto get as global as quickly as possible.
We want to producecontent all over the worldto share with the world.
And so it's not a Hollywood to the world,it's really connecting great stories.
- Is there anythingthat when you look backat Netflix you thinkwas a kind of a strategythat you pioneered that we didn't cover,that would be useful for the students?- Once you're public,which would be a great day,you're gonna have an issuearound stockholder utilityand stock comp options and RSU's.
That really frustrates people becausemost of our company stocksare pretty volatile.
And then if the stock goes down,people feel cheated.
So I think the mechanism,if you get to that stage,look up how Netflix doesstock options becauseit's from my experience inthe first company Purisoftwith dealing with thatvolatility that we did abig adaptation in Netflix.
So I think works much better.
And it's basically price averagingif you follow stock markets.
- So let's switch to a little bit of the,kind of the classic role of a job.
Of the role of a CEO.
How do you define the role of the CEO?- That definitely variesby stage and company.
In the first couple ofyears you do everything.
You're doing dishes at night.
You're coding,maybe you're writingmarketing materials for sure,you're dealing withcustomers and investors,and you have so manydisadvantages as an irrelevantlittle nothing as acompany that you have tomake up for it with talent andhard work and brute force.
And so if you're lucky,that's only a couple of yearsas opposed to ten yearswhere you're just on call constantlyin a very intense way.
And then the trick isas you get to 50, 100 peopleyou've got to evolve your management styleas you get to 500 people.
Kind of each 10x,maybe even just five x you've got to adaptto be more strategic because it used to beyou knew every personand now you don't.
So now you gotta managea little bit differentlyand still you wanna be a great leaderfor those people.
When you get to real scale,most of what I do isvision about what marketswe should be in.
Like we should go global,we should do originals.
But I'm not picking countriesand I'm not picking shows.
Vision of we should spend 5%or 10% of revenue on marketingas opposed to 50% or 2%.
So some big macro decisions like that.
But not what's the campaign.
So there's vision there.
There's vision in terms of culture.
What are the rules of the roadof how the firm operates?What's our character?So that it's a healthy place.
Vision, focus, inspiration.
But you really,you can't do much of the work becauseit's just too big.
So if you tried to,you're laboring yourself outand getting everyone else upset.
In my first company it wasprobably a more relevantexample for all of you.
I was 33.
The company's growing about 50 people,and I was still trying to coat it.
We had 50 people.
I was still writing product at night,and then trying to be CEO at dayand sleeping at work.
And I wasn't careful enoughabout taking showers.
And finally someone said to me,"Shower!",(crowd laughs)and it's just gross.
We don't want our leader to be gross.
We get that you're working hard.
And by the way,when there's bugs in your coat,it's really hard.
- It's a different definition of culture.
- It's really hard to getyou to fix things becauseyou're off doing other things.
And so I was trying to hold on too longto the dual roles.
- And so how do you improveyour ability as CEO?How do you learn?How do you be on a constant improvement?- In my first company,I think I made a mistakeand I felt like investingin me was sort of selfish.
I should be working.
And so I got invited to YPOwhich is Young Presidents Organization,and it's a good learning type paradigm.
And I looked at it a little,but I was like,"It's like a day a month.
I can't take a day a month off of work."And for me it was like off of work.
And in hindsight that was areal mistake cause I didn't.
I was too busy choppingwood to sharpen the axe.
As of later state CEO,you need the skills and personal maturityand growth and reflectionand I should have cross-fertilized.
I should have spent more timewith other entrepreneurs,seeing how other people do it,learn and invest in myself.
Maybe that's do more yoga or do meditationor be more.
It's like that great Gandhi quote about"Oh my God I've got so much to do.
I've got to meditate for atleast two hours this morning."I didn't have that perspective.
Really until that company sold,and then I did a wonderful thing thatReid Hoffman also didbeing a crown fellow.
I didn't understand thatconnection that by making myselfbetter both as a person and a leader,I was actually helping the companyeven though I was away from work.
And it sounds so obvious to say it,but I just didn't givemyself permission to do that.
- Is there anything youencounter cause one of the thingsyou also have a generalreputation for is a deep certaintyof conviction of belief.
Have the things that youencountered as CEO causedyou to question yourself?- I would say that's notan accurate attribution.
It may come across that way,but I'm very much like Hank Paulsonand you can never know anything for sure.
Maintaining a reservoir ofdoubt is really important.
We often try to do theexercise like at Netflix.
You're 18 months with doing exercise,what would be different in Netflixif you were CEO?And it's a way for me togather all the things.
And some people say,"They've changed the pricing.
If we do this different wewould be in the ad business."And then I really try to think through.
A lot of "Would I really do that?Am I sure?How confident am I?"We call it farming for dissent.
You're constantly,you can never be confident of anything.
You want to constantly be curious,and yet you have to beexecuting really firmlyso it's a little bit like your lovelyIsaiah Berlin piece ofsimultaneously knowingthat there is no certaintyand yet working reallyhard to what you think.
- It's Isaiah Berlin'stwo concepts of freedom.
Anyway for.
- For another class.
- For another class.
- You should hear Reid's discussion.
I guess he's waiting tillthe end for the questions.
- We have about 25 minutes.
Then we'll go to questions.
- Also partially,this is in part aportrait to how you thinkso the people can then goand ask specific questionsand the things that they know that youwill actually be amazing at.
So board of directors.
How do you compose them?Is there such a thingas a high performanceboard of directors?And what would you dodifferently with youryears of entrepreneurialexperience doing this?- When you are interviewingventure capitalists,you definitely wanna pick on the peopleas opposed to the evaluation.
The quality of thepeople in your board roomis super important to you.
I say quality.
It is probably not the right word.
The rapport you haveand the connection you haveand your trust makes a huge difference.
If the people in that very,that's like a marriage.
It's very hard to get divorcedfrom your board members.
You gotta spend some time with themand then say,"Okay if they're in, they're in."And then you gotta listen to them,and then you definitelyhave to be honest with them.
You'd be amazed how many CEO's are notvery honest with their board members.
And that's poison becausethen the investor hasto constantly be pushingand probing and trying tofigure out what reality is causethat's their job.
So you want to really layeverything on the tableand be the paradigm of honestyand straightforwardnesswith your board members.
And if you've got the right ones,they won't freak out.
They'll be very thoughtful.
So I would say there'sno perfect board members.
It's unique to each of you of someonewhose judgement you trust.
Whose integrity you trust,and you enjoy being with.
- Do you think the role of the boardchanges as the organization changes size?And if so how?- Yeah when you're smallor your board membersknow a lot more than you as a companycause they pattern match ona lot of different things,the larger you get,the more any board member.
I was on the board of Microsoftfor a number of years,and on Facebook youspend two days a quarteron a public board.
And you're just level of depth.
There's not near as strong as the CEO'sand the senior leadership teams.
You're more of a safety net then.
Then you are able to contribute.
- And then the last in terms of the roles,and then we'll get to theblitzscaling part of this.
But how should someonethink about knowing whetheror not they're a capable founder or not?How do you kind of say"I am. I should actually do this",versus "I shouldn't do this"?- It's a good questionand I'm not sure I didn't know.
I just cared about the productof this first product idea I had.
I wanted to see that out.
And I was definitely reluctant CEO.
A couple of times Iscrewed up badly enoughthat I said to the board,"Let's get someone in whoknows what they're doingand I'll be VP of engineeringand I'll be fine."And both times they said,"No you did screw up,but we still rather haveyou than someone elseand the dislocation that that brings."So that's why I say I was reluctant.
And the whole first companywhich was '91 and '97,I was kind of miserable.
I was always underwater.
The company was always,as soon as I learned something,the company was bigger.
I was killing myself physicallyand mentally trying so hardand just underwater.
Then that got acquired in '97,and we started Netflix.
That's like 15 people that was likecompared to the other company had 700.
It was like so easy.
So then Netflix has been fantasticand total joy for me becauseit's kind of like yoursecond kid or somethingwhere your first kid it's a panic.
"Oh my God."And depending on the kids,as long as they're both healthy,your second kid is much easierand you're much less freaked out.
So for me then I have enjoyed the last18, 19 years tremendously becauseI've been able to keepup with the challenges.
- So let's shift toscaling and blitz scaling.
One of the things that youand I have actually hada conversation about foras like sometimes these thingsare just normal scale upand sometimes there's blitz scaling.
Netflix is actually more of an example ofkind of just regular scaling.
There's relatively littleblitz scaling within it.
But it's one of the things where,actually in fact the consistency,the expecting growth also mattersand being systematicabout how you change size.
What's your sense of the keycharacteristics to knowin advance in order to scale right?And then what's yourkind of reflections onthe kind of the different levels?- Well let's see.
There are scale economies in businesseslike Amazon and Netflix.
The bigger you get,the cheaper the marginal customer sale is.
And those are powerful.
Those merit you investingforward to get to scale,and so running losses forthe first couple of yearsdoing things like that.
So call that normal business.
And then there's a coupleof rare businesses likeLinkedIn and Facebook thatare network effect businesses.
And then the prize of getting big first isso much larger than just a scale business.
Then in those businesses,it's worth selling 90% of the company toraise a $1 billion,to be the big one.
You must be the winner.
It's such extreme winner-take-all.
I think it's the degree of winner-take-alland network effect that gets you to eithertake the risksand the stress of blitzscaling rather thanthe more.
Like Netflix, like Amazon,in the early years we'regoing 80% year over year,and then 70% and 60% an hour 25.
And 25 at our size orAmazon's are big numbers.
But that's like a normalgreat scaling business.
And both Amazon against Walmartand us against cable and satellite.
We have huge markets.
Growing at these rates is great,and hopefully we'll be able to growfor 20 years.
And Amazon the same.
But then there's a couple of businesses.
Again eBay was one of the firstwhere it's real network effect.
And in those businesses,I think you do kind ofcrazy practices becauseyou've got to grow 300%to maximize the opportunity.
So you're gonna be sloppyon a number of things.
So you probably don'tworry about talent densityand you don't do a bunchof the things that Idescribed which are thethings that are appropriateif you are trying to be acareful disciplined operator.
But if it's "get big or go home",and then that's the interesting thing.
But it, again, mostbusinesses is not that.
It's businesses that have network effect.
- Well some of the things thatI think interesting about itis sometimes it's network effect.
Sometimes you have toget to a minimum scale,which is Amazon and you.
And there's a number of other businesses.
The thing I think is,would be fun to get someperspective on here for youis when do you think that it's necessaryto move fast because of competition?So like for example,well another thing Ithink drives scaling fastis you say,"Okay I've got to occupy thegreen field market before them"cause presumably this is alittle bit of how you thinkabout global now in terms of,it's not just a questionof content in globalism,but it's a question of,"Look we've proven this thingand let's, in every relevantmarket in the world,this is something we should be there."So no?- No, or yes and no.
A company can get startedtwo or three yearsbefore us in Germany,and we can knock them out in 12 monthsbecause we have great scale,and it's not a network of facts.
Where with eBay tried toknock out Yahoo! Japan,they didn't succeedand that's been permanent.
So if you're in thenetwork effect business,then you get more of first is forever.
Cause the barriers are really strong.
But if you're just in the scale business,you can go in with a lot of contentand energy dependingon what your market isand that's why Amazon.
It's like how quicklydid they wipe out CDNowin like 1999?Like really quickly right?Because it didn't matter thatCDNow had started earlier,more scale on that side.
Again I think it's reallyrelated to barriersand these network effectbarriers are so strong.
- Although just as you're saying,scale barriers are relevant too.
Cause once you get to a certain size,you can leverage yoursize in order to win.
Cause that's precisely your Germany point.
- There are scale economies.
They're just not as strong as a barrier.
So you can think a barrieras how much pricing powerdo you have,which could either be how much advertisingor what the literal price is.
And if you've got a ton of pricing power,then you can raise prices a lotand it's still very hardto come after you becauseyou've got that network.
- Were there any,as you got larger interms of the organization,were there any newstrategies that you added?Cause a classic one iscorporate developmentin terms of that's somethingyou now do when you'rehundreds of people versusearlier or in the thousands.
Were there any kind ofkey strategies that got,obviously original contentwas the one that came outand scaled?- Yeah not particularly for us.
So in 17 years we havenever done an acquisition.
Obviously we haven't been acquired.
And corporate development is M&amp;A.
Again we haven't had thosekind of dynamics in our market.
There's other markets wherethe key thing is to buy upa bunch of companiesthat might be competitorsor adjoining to get toscale and differentiation.
- So let's do a last few questionson kind of Silicon Valleyand then open up to the group.
So what do you think makesSilicon Valley so uniquein the world?- Well there have been alot of companies like Amazonthat are scale businesses,not network effectthat are successful outsideof Silicon Valley causeyou don't have to be here Ithink to do a scale business.
So far all the network effectbusinesses are here becauseit's this network effect is when youneed to do blitz scaling.
You need to be in Silicon Valley,or it's like ten times betteras opposed to only 50% better.
- So it's here or China.
- In their markets yes.
Fair enough.
So China's such a self-contained market.
It's an isolated island becauseof the great firewall that it just,it might be a different planet.
It's got its own ecosystem.
- But huge island.
(crowd laughing)- Okay, it's an island for therest of the world thatheadquarters has been here.
- And why do you think Silicon Valleytends to be network effects?- I think it's historic factors thatget Detroit to be thecenter of the car world,and then there's more talentthere to build car companies.
You get those kind of.
You get Manhattanand London for financial products.
So you get density.
It's almost irrelevant why it started.
it's just that once it happens,then it's the best place to be.
And then continues to be a better.
I mean it's a much better place nowthan it was 20 yearsago for entrepreneurs.
And then that was betterthan 20 years before that.
The more of you that do companies,the more there's that ecosytem.
And so our benefits asan area continue to go.
Again but if you've got like a minor idea,that will be a $10 millionbusiness in ten years,pretty good really.
Move to Austin.
Do not do that here becauseyou're competing with blow-away ideasfor people and talent and moneyand cost of talent.
- Are there any myths thatyou think we tell ourselvesthat Silicon Valley peoplethat are worthy of exploding?- Not obviously but.
- I'll give you onethat I think is kind of,actually in fact I think alot of Silicon Valley peoplethink that they're actuallyvery good at managingand actually in fact,they're not bad at managingbut actually in fact it's thecomposition of how you puttogether like network effects businesses.
How do you do a disruptionin the industry.
Those kind of thingscreate a lot of things.
It's not actually in factgenius management techniques.
- Do you think Larry Pageor Steve Jobs would've saidthey're good at managing?I think Larry Page is amazing scientist,and he's a really deep thinker,and he's an amazing guy to inspireand lead Google.
But visionary in so many ways.
But not like you would go into GEand be that successful.
He doesn't think of himselfas a general manager.
And so I don't think mostSilicon Valley people.
Tim Cook might cause he grew up on that.
In operations and he isa very talented manager.
So it just goes to show that,you look at how successfulTim Cook's been at Apple.
It's been phenomenaland he's obviously a verydifferent person than Steve was,and different management style.
Which just says that there'smultiple styles that work.
I think you shouldn'ttry to be someone else.
Don't like read about Steve Jobsand then start wearingmock black turtlenecks.
(crowd laughing)Be yourself.
Oh God here I am in black.
(crowd laughing)Figure out what your emotionalcenter is and be that really great.
And don't try to be other people.
I mean it's fine to read about them,but there's no one style that.
And if you look at the varietiesof the really successful companies,the variety of leaders is quite wide.
- [Voiceover] Can you talka little bit about theswitch from DVD's to streamingand how you internallyorganize the product teams?Did you buy everyoneand bring the different teamsor did they change their duties?- So question is how dowe evolve the internalmanagement to move from DVD to streaming?Because the firststreaming product offeringwas integrated into DVD.
If you were a DVD subscriber for Netflix,you then got a littlebit of free streamingand then you got a littlemore free streaming.
It was pretty integratedas opposed to it was a separate offering.
So it only got reallydifficult when we got toa separate offering.
There's a streaming service from Netflix,and there's a DVD service.
And the only really painful part wasprobably 2010 or 2011 when out of 30 VP'swe had five focused on the DVD.
And this was a close knit exec teamand then we kicked thefive out of the meeting.
And we realized we have to eat, sleepand breathe streaming like Hulu.
And not also have this great five people.
And of course they felt bad,and eventually they realizedthey're great at DVD'sand they should follow that.
So there was a time of separation.
But in the first part it was integrated,but that's because the productoffering was integrated.
- In the back.
- [Voiceover] I'm curious about how theregulatory risks hashelped with your strategyas to play this technicalityand international expansion.
Has this affected thecore of business now or?- Well as you grow.
- [Reid] Repeat the question.
- Yes thanks the questionis how a regulatory strategyhas been important.
We've had to fight for net neutralityand a big threat for uswas that cable companieswho are most broadband would get to chargeus a tremendous amount to beable to serve our customersas opposed to be pretty openand that they would havean advantage cause theywouldn't charge themselves.
So we've had to fight thatregulatory battle overthe last four years.
And then every company that gets largefaces anti-trust concerns over time.
You see that with Googlein Europe right now.
- [Voiceover] Why don't you policeusers sharing theiraccount with other users?That must be something reallydeep that concerns you guys.
- So question is why don't wepolice or crack down on userswho share with other users?So when a wife shares withher husband the password,it's probably okay.
When the dad shares with the kidsthat are six years old living at home,it's probably okay.
When that kid goes to college,it's probably okay.
Remember 90% of kids live at homewhen they go to college.
So that's definitely okay.
So now the kids hanging outin the apartment next doorthen maybe that's okay.
Or is it not?Or when the kid arrives at college,is that okay?So the only thing that's really not okayis the dorm room.
So the dorm gets an account.
The fraternity gets an account.
And 30 people do it.
And there's an easy checkon that which is you onlyget one or two concurrentstreams at the same time.
You're not gonna share too broadly.
And to get more concurrent streams,it's more cost.
And so that is an effectivelimiter on broadscale sharingand then we don't haveto try to police people'sliving situations.
It is three friends?Three friends in an apartment,is that legitimate or not?We get to skid out of all of that.
- [Voiceover] So I read on Netflix.
On the website it talksabout sports mentalitywhen it comes to managing.
I'm just curious what's the benefitand some like setting my account back?- Sure the classic,it's probably not for you guysbut it used to be a classicmetaphor for companieswas the family.
And you'd hire themand you'd be like,"We're a family.
We look after each other."And it's kind of baloney becauseyou'll lay someone off in a way that youwouldn't your sister.
You want them to work for youlike they were a family memberfor free and cheap,but you're not reallyprepared to treat themlike a family member if you're honest.
Really the professionalrelationship is like a sports team.
And if you want to win a championship,you got to have incredibletalent at every position.
We said,"Look we're like a professional sport",not like your kid's soccer team,but a "professional sports team wherewe pay people well.
We want them to win."And if you have one bad game,you don't lose your position.
But ultimately you're fightingfor your position every year.
And that's how we feel about it.
As long as we're honest about it,it's exciting cause then you can playreally sophisticated sports.
So to do a blind pass in soccerand you just know the person's there,that's an art.
You need great teammates.
That you are so well rehearsed.
To do that you need great talentand that's fun to be around.
- So we'll get to Chris'squestion in a second,but that's too good of a layup.
Comments on Chris andmy's book "The Alliance".
- Meaning in short terms of duty?You're signing up to get something done,which is like a player's contract.
We don't tend to usecontracts in Silicon Valley,but Hollywood does.
Their practice is formalized.
You sign up for three years or five yearsand they mostly stick.
And so the next evolutionof the alliance isintroducing contractsin the Silicon Valley.
Again we're not used to itfrom a labor standpoint,but large sectors of theeconomy work that way,and it works fine.
It's a different system.
- So the first part is,can you talk about afew of the other thingsthat you decided to dodifferently as Pure Software?And then the second part isyou've talked about investingyourself like what are thethings that have been mostproductive in terms ofreturn on investmentand investment itself?- Sure.
The big thing that wedo differently as Purewe were really trying,which was '91 and '97 to be efficient.
We were engineers running a company,and so every time something went wrong,we put a process inplace to make sure thatdidn't go wrong again.
Which is a very semiconductoryield frame of reference.
We saw everything as amagic set of processes.
But then the market shifted on usand in that case from C++ to Java,and it turned out thateveryone that the companyhad were well adaptedto following the rulesand implementing the processes.
But that doesn't make them thepeople who are well adaptedto re-think the marketand how should we approachthis other market.
The company struggled mightilyand ultimately was sold because of that.
What we realized is we were over-optimizedfor one business,and we had led the company become,it's like monoculture agriculture,we had one strain ofwheat over a huge area.
Very efficient in the short term.
And then what we should haveoptimized for is flexibility.
And that in fact allcompanies face challengeswhen market shifts so weshould have been more tolerantof inefficiency and mistake and error,and more focused on flexibility becauseI think in the long term,flexibility is what's chosen for.
So if you think of human evolution,we're not very well adaptedto many specific thingsand we humans are superwell adapted to be flexible.
And so our lifeform hasconquered the world becauseof that flexibilitydespite many maladaptationsfor any particular climate.
Of course there's manyexamples if you think about it.
And the trick is managementis generally short term.
You're focused on makingthese better next year,and that's mostly efficiency seeking.
So you have to balancethat with some long termabout the value of seeking flexibility.
- [Reid] And then the second part was?- Best thing for,it probably varies by person.
For me it's been readingcombination of western civand leadership and management books.
"Beyond entrepreneurship"is one of my favorite,Jim Collins before he did "Good to Great"and "Built to Last."This book in '95 or '96 he published it.
And the first 80 pages you can read thatevery year for ten years.
It's really perfect for the entrepreneur,"Beyond Entrepreneurship."- [Voiceover] Can you talkmore specifically about howyou incorporated the machine learningand the AI side ofthings with your own dataset up Netflix,and the wild crazy worldof Hollywood in producing?How do you evaluatecontent that's passed on,especially now since you'regonna have a lot of pitches?- It is, we basically,it's a good insight.
The question is how doyou apply machine learningto picking content or developing content?We basically don't.
Your intuition as howwould that be relevant.
What shows up when youopen Netflix on your iPhoneor on the web or on the TVthat is a ranking problem.
The ecosystem is prettygood at ranking problems.
So it's a big ranking problem.
What are the titles most relevantand interesting to you?So it's really big on that aspect.
Now we can apply that on marketing alsowith real-time biddingand personalized marketing.
But in terms of picking shows,that's like picking employees.
It's a human judgement taskof what's gonna be big.
Once a show's produced,we can selectively promoteit on statistical techniquesbased on who's enjoying it,who's watching it really quickly versuswatching it slowly.
What other people are like that?So promoting the content to theright subset of the audiencewhich is critical when you'vegot a big global audience,is a very machine learning problem.
But the actual production,like other people have triedto do script analysis systems.
When you take a scriptand you code it up in all these dimensionsand then try to do predictions.
And none of it's worked.
So there's so much inthe artistic executionthat you as a consumerthen love from the script.
And once it's produced,there's no value in predicting it.
You're just gonna put it out and try.
- [Voiceover] So as a quick bog,so is the focus of Netflix gonna beone show for larger audiencesor smaller shows for niche audiences?- The question is arewe focused on big showsor small shows,and we're agnostic.
We're focused on intensity.
We want you to love what you watch,and sometimes that willbe a big show causeyou're in the mainstream ofthe society that you live inand sometimes it willbe a neat show becauseyou're not at the mainsteam.
But again it's all about intensity.
We have to match cost of productionto the expected size of the audience,but we're just as happy todo small shows as big showsespecially as you get topersonalized marketing externallyand of course you've gotpersonalized merchandisingwithin the service.
- [Voiceover] So it seemsas though you guys get a lotmore creative direction to the people thatyou obviously contract to make it famous.
I was just wondering howyou balance that withmaking sure that you ensurethese are good shows?- So the question is how dowe ensure these are good showsand how much creative direction do we do.
It depends upon the show.
Generally we like to meet with a teamand then if we like them and back them,let them run.
We're very hands off once we've madea decision to back them.
If they want in pub,we give it to them.
We'll do these things.
But relative to other studios,we're much more letting them run,and we've won a reputation for thatin the creative community.
- So last question fromthat side in the jacket.
- [Voiceover] So especiallywhen you're first starting out,how quickly should you go to your boardand your board of advisors,and how do you think aboutthe limited characteristics?- You know it's a muchbetter ecosystem for that,especially the board of advisors level nowthan it was 20 years ago.
I ended up not havingany board of advisorsand it wasn't that common.
I think Reid Hoffmanwould be a much bettermuch more insightful for you on that.
Sort of the subtlety of thecurrent startup ecosystemor Sam Altman that you've metand just not that qualified for it.
- So with that let'sthank Reed for joining usfor a lovely time.
