 WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en - So, thank you everyone.
 Those people who have come to all the class sessions and who are here for the very final class in CS 183C, Technology-Enabled Blitz Scaling We're gonna be pretty informal today because we have food and drinks outside we're gonna be partying a bit.
 - But...
 (applause and cheering) But, since Stanford seems to want us to approach this is an academic exercise - What? - we thought it would be a good idea to have a final lecture for the class.
 So we're gonna keep it pretty, we're gonna keep it pretty informal.
 I'm gonna talk a little bit about the high level, I'll talk a little bit about the high level concepts of the class, and hopefully remind you of some of the classes that you may have forgotten along the way.
 And Allen will talk a little bit about LinkedIn and how some of the lessons have worked there.
 And John will bat cleanup and provide information that will be of interest and useful to you throughout your lives.
 - And this should be as interactive as you can be.
 So just raise your hand and ask questions as we go along.
 - So very quickly, oh yeah, - And what about videoing, just so people know what the videos are? - oh yes, of course! So we are, we are taking video but at a certain point in time we'll go ahead and cut it off so that we're not gonna video tape the entire party, just the part we're having this discussion.
 (audience laughs) And besides which, it's gonna be really hard to talk into this microphone while eating a burrito.
 Chris.
 - [Voiceover] Are there any questions that won't be videoed or-- - [John] Yeah, we can do that, - [Allen] Yes, yeah.
 - so we'll turn off the video.
 Definitely, we'll turn off the video.
 - Definitely turn off the video.
 - Yeah, we'll turn off the video.
 And I guess re-- - [Man on right] But not yet.
 - [John] And I guess Reid sends his regards.
 He's doing annual LinkedIn filing types of things, which is what happens as you get to these atrocious scales.
 (Allen laughs) By atrocious, I mean awesome.
 - [Allen] Yes, awesome.
 - Awesomely atrocious.
 - [John] Awesome and a little bit more painful to run, unless you're compassionate, as we learned.
 (audience laughs) - At any rate.
 So as you know, this class is about blitz scaling, which is rapid, relentless growth.
 And we've looked at a lot of different issues around blitz scaling over the course of the class.
 Probably one of the most important things to start with is, when do you blitz-scale? And we talked with people like Mariam Naficy over at Minted, who actually talked about how she spent years growing the company before she shifted to blitz-scaling.
 We also talked with Brian Chesky at Airbnb, who talked about how, interestingly enough, an external threat, the Samwer brothers, actually caused Airbnb to dramatically increase the pace of expansion, especially into Europe.
 So what we see with blitz-scaling is that often times the external conditions will determine whether or not it makes sense to start the blitz-scaling process.
 We also saw that sometimes blitz-scaling occurs whether you like it or not.
 Shishir Mehrotra talked about how, at YouTube he went into the CFO's office and the CFO put up the charts of how much money they were spending and how quickly that amount was growing and said, "This may very well be the worst business model "the world has ever seen." Well that's blitz-scaling, but that's blitz-scaling that you actually have to address, not just as a strategy but as a condition in and of itself.
 And finally, I want you guys to think back to when Reed Hastings from Netflix came and he talked about the importance of network effects to blitz-scaling.
 I think that Allen may comment on it a little bit in terms of LinkedIn.
 But one of the key reasons to blitz-scale is when there are returns to being the first person to achieve scale.
 And as Reid pointed out, there are certain businesses where those returns don't exist.
 Many years ago they started a company called CDNow, which sold CDs online.
 Probably all of us were customers a bit way back when.
 But as soon as Amazon began selling CDs, they were flattened like the coyote by the road runner.
 So there were no network effects there, but for a company like LinkedIn there are very strong network effects.
 Now let me touch upon that later on.
 The lessons of how do you blitz-scale, the techniques of blitz-scaling? Well one thing you guys have probably all heard, from Paul Graham and many others, is to do things that don't scale.
 And we saw how many of the speakers who came in, in fact did things that didn't scale, whether it was Larry and Sergei interviewing every single candidate at Google, and putting all sorts of crazy rules on who they could and couldn't hire, and then breaking all those rules all along.
 Brian Chesky talking about how he actually went to his various hosts and photographed their apartments for them, because they did a terrible job on their own.
 And they were like, "Wait a minute.
 "This is the CEO, I just signed up "and he signed me up, and he comes over, "and he photographs it, and he's bringing in air mattresses.
 "This is kinda weird." But, and then obviously he doesn't do that any longer, but it was important to achieving scale.
 And, remember Nirav Tolia talking about Nextdoor, and how his engineers didn't believe they could possibly get 100 neighborhoods that first summer, and they would actually go door to door to make sure they could get their neighborhoods.
 This is an internet startup working like a Fuller Brush salesman going door to door.
 But once you get that first 100 fans, those 100 people that love your company, then you can get on to the blitz-scaling train.
 And as the company grows, all of a sudden, you have to start changing what you do.
 Maybe in some cases it involves people, hiring from the outside.
 We heard from Selina Tobaccowala over at SurveyMonkey that one of the key things they did at SurveyMonkey was to begin to bring people in from the outside who had the experience of scaling the technology that the internal team didn't have.
 Sometimes it was by acquisition.
 We also heard from, let's see looking at my notes, we also heard from Mariam Naficy over at Minted.
 She wanted to grow her team from the inside and when she wasn't blitz-scaling, she had the luxury to go ahead and give them the time to develop.
 But once they were moving at such an aggressive pace, she had to look outside.
 Although she did have a strategy, as you may recall.
 She went and hired people for HR and Finance and things like that, who had the experience, and tried to keep the internal people focused on the product and the business side of the world.
 But the interesting thing is, even though you're trying to change what you do, as a founder, as a CEO, which both of you have been, you also need to keep some things the same.
 And some of the things that I'll remember from the class are the ways in which, even at the most enormous scales, the leaders were trying to find ways to keep things the same.
 So remember how Eric Schmidt would talk about products at Google.
 One of the big things was, "Hey, very great project starts off as "one professor and one grad student." And they would continually break it up into small teams.
 And I think that that's a theme you saw with the number of the folks involved.
 It's also a question of culture.
 I think that we've talked a lot about culture over the course of the class, and that's something that actually Reid has been emphasizing a lot recently as well.
 How culture is the way that we hold each other accountable.
 We hold each other accountable as peers and horizontally in addition to the vertical accountability of management.
 And as the company grows larger and larger, if you rely on vertical management, you as an individual can only touch so many people.
 And there are so many layers between you and the people you're trying to affect that you need to use mechanisms like the Netflix culture deck or like Brian Chesky's weekly e-mails in order to reach everyone.
 - You know, I think the things that occurred to me as we went through the things, where it kind of jumped out of me is how clear, maybe three things were.
 One is how clear each of the leaders was about the phasing of the company, about how you're in this phase that you needed to scale this particular thing but not that.
 And I think they were all super articulate about when they were in a marketing blitz-scale, or user growth blitz-scale or what have you.
 And I wasn't sure that was gonna be the case, but in retrospect it felt like that in Mozilla too.
 We were clearly in a user-growth time and then we weren't quite sure how to get out of that user-growth time.
 Well that was one of the things.
 The second thing I would observe is that I think everybody, with exception of one or two people, they were thirsty for finding other people to learn from, and other models to learn from.
 And it was all really obvious when you had one or two speakers who didn't do that and were trying to invent everything from scratch.
 I think it's harder when you're trying to invent everything.
 It's easier when you go talk to models, you're aggressive about finding mentors, you talked about Bill Campbell for example in that.
 So those are the two big things I would take away.
 But then the third thing I'd say, is when Jeff was talking about compassion.
 He spent a lot of time talking about organizational compassion.
 I think that that would be another way to talk about culture or these e-mails, whatever.
 When I talk about culture, when I say, I talk about alignment, which is how do you, how do you help people make the same decisions whether you are in the room or not? And how do you make, like how do you set the rules of the road? I would say that my observation is that everybody was looking for models outside, everybody is clear about phases, and what was important when, and then they were all clear about how to get alignment in the organization.
 And in the alignment conversation, and you guys probably noticed this, like Jeff, we hardly talked at all our products, we talked almost all about organizational compassion, organizational alignment.
 I think the bigger you get, the more you look for these leverage tools to do that.
 - It's difficult to find out sort of what phase you're in when you're actually in the midst of it.
 It's like the boundaries are not super clear.
 But the need, and Jeff emphasized this, for speed and quality decision making and being willing to say, you know, that's exactly where we need to be right now.
 Even if you're not 100% right, at least you've decided.
 I think is key, because knowing where you are in the process actually means a lot for your ability to be able to execute in a particular location.
 If you don't know then you're gonna get very fuzzy, and it's gonna get extremely difficult to actually make it succeed.
 - And I think we didn't, sorry, one second, I think we'd even look at counter-examples too much by companies that did blitz-scale and now who didn't, I guess, Maybe Yahoo is the big example on that.
 I think even with Marissa, you heard a lot about how do you recreate the conditions and recreate alignment so you can get back to where you were and where you started.
 I think maybe if, in the future, we might try to find somebody willing to come in and talk about the counter case, where it was going up and then down.
 What do you have? - [Voiceover] (speaking off mic) a few days ago as well, but from like a very naive perspective, you look at a lot of the major Silicon Valley tech companies, you're like, "Oh they all seem to have the same (speaking off mic)" - Oh that's not, yeah that's not culture.
 - That's not culture.
 - [John] That's not a culture.
 - [Voiceover] Oh okay, so what would be, I guess where is-- - Yeah, so here's the thing.
 The question is more of less, like look, every Silicon Valley company has the same culture, you got skateboards and free food and slack and all that.
 - Perks.
 - Yeah so culture is how you make decisions, that's the whole thing.
 - Yeah, and how, so and Jeff has a very distinctive, and he might have mentioned it-- - I culture is super misunderstood.
 Profoundly misunderstood.
 - So you have values which help you make decisions, you have have culture which defines how you work together and those things together, culture and values is primarily about ensuring that different teams wherever you are no matter where you're living or what you're working on they have the same sort of rules of engagement to allow them to work together effectively.
 - And then culture is both in the things that you do and then also things you don't do, whether you, how you hire, how you talk about your customers, how you talk about your partners.
 It's everything, but it's primarily how do you make decisions from very large decisions to very small decisions.
 And how do you try to make sure that the organization makes them in a consistent way.
 And free food doesn't really have anything to do with that.
 Free food is a tactic around how do you get people to talk to each other.
 You know, letting people have scooters or whatever or hoverboards in the office, like that's just a thing you do, 'cause that's what people like doing.
 But that's not the important bits of culture.
 - I think it's also important to note that so many of the elements of culture are set in the very early stages of scale.
 I think that having been there from the very beginning, Allen, I think you can see that there are key elements of LinkedIn culture that are established when you were all in just one room together.
 - It's absolutely ridiculous.
 It's almost like the interactions the founders have with each other, basically get expanded to basically describe the way the entire sort of like physics of a system works, the physics of a culture work in the future.
 It's very remarkable.
 You have to be aware of it.
 But, trying to shape it too much is a mistake.
 It's just not a good use of time.
 - [Voiceover] Sure.
 - [Voiceover] What are some examples of distinctions in culture that you've seen? - Examples of distinctions in culture that we've seen, well (mumbles) Google's pretty different and Twitter's pretty different than Facebook.
 Like what are good examples of why that's true? - So I think that we've heard that there are not good cultures and bad cultures.
 There are strong cultures and weak cultures.
 - I don't buy that, just for the record.
 I know Brian said that and Brian's super smart, so maybe he's right, but that doesn't feel right to me.
 I think there-- - So it depends on-- - [John] I have objectively observed horrible cultures.
 - So what you've objectively observed cultures that were, yeah we're not gonna, we're not gonna name those names.
 - Not only weak, but strong and bad.
 - After we turn off the video, maybe we'll name some of those names.
 But, the definition, again the definition of culture is not necessarily does it make people happy or even does it make the company effective, although that I think is a good way to judge a culture.
 The question of the culture is how much does it shape the behavior of the people in it? - Yeah, so maybe one example, so you know, Jeff Bezos and Amazon culture got pretty pillary recently.
 I think Amazon has a very distinct culture around very hard work.
 But also being intensely prepped for every meeting.
 So you know any meaningful meeting on Amazon doesn't have a slide deck.
 It starts with a two page or three page write up.
 And everybody sits in silence and reads the write up for the first 10 or 15 minutes of the meeting.
 What that says is everybody who's doing this is gonna read up, you're gonna have time to read, and you expect them to come in engaged, not just talk to slides.
 That's a good example of a culture that has impacts.
 Apple, for example, is different now than when I was there.
 But it has an extremely segmented culture that only comes together at the very top of the organization.
 And so, if you ask people what project they're working on, at Apple, what I've heard people say is that they often spend a lot of the beginnings of meetings trying to figure out who's disclosed on what, who's allowed to know what and talk about to the others.
 So you figure that out.
 Now, it's hard to be critical of Apple, 'cause that place works like a (audio cuts out) charm.
 Like a dream.
 It's a great company.
 But it's not one that I could run.
 And Mozilla, we were the opposite.
 At Mozilla we were completely open and transparent.
 And anything anybody wanted to talk about, I talked about.
 In public, within often, actually on the web and Twitter and stuff.
 - Probably the best example, the best known example of a culture for an organization is the military culture.
 Military culture is extremely distinctive.
 It's extremely hierarchal, it's extremely organized and disciplined.
 And it works great.
 Would you do that with a company? I don't know, but it's a great example of a culture.
 - People have tried, it usually doesn't work.
 Especially in Silicon Valley.
 (man speaks off mic) - There's a bunch, like one or-- - So the question is what is it? Excitable question to ask? - How do you try to figure out if you're interviewing or something like that.
 How do you figure out what questions you're gonna ask to figure out what the culture is? I think often it's how do you disagree, how do you fight, how do you argue.
 I think poking around that's probably most important.
 Like so what happens if I have an idea and I disagree with you, CEO? And trying to figure that out.
 And to the extent you can, work through a really concrete, as far down as you can in the details.
 - Agreed.
 - One other question I will ask people about culture is I'll say, well can you tell me about the last time that the culture caused you to make a decision that went against the financial incentives? Because ultimately if your cultural values don't actually override the financial considerations, then you don't actually have cultural values.
 - What are some things people notice? I think maybe, it was probably maybe four or five weeks ago, we just started talking to leaders of very large organizations now.
 What are some things that surprised people as we went through, anything? - [Voiceover] I mean one thing that really confirmed my own experiences, but also like it seems like hiring is really difficult and also the most important thing.
 Because essentially all the things that people talk about, whether it's like compassion method or all of these tools and like tool boxes, kinda underlie like good people.
 Like you have to have good people and scare trust.
 You don't have that, you don't have compassion matching, you don't have, you know firing in a nice way or whatever.
 You don't have anything else like that, so.
 I mean if there's one question I have, I would never have asked you earlier, as you're blitz-scaling where you have to have speed of hiring, like how do you actually, I mean where do you draw your line with hiring? - Yeah so I mean you're basically saying, you said it's like one observation is that people and hiring is the main thing and how do you get great people? My two cents with it is almost anybody who's been successful will tell you they spend most of the time trying to figure out how to get great people in their organization, how to let them win, and that's kind of it.
 How to try to help them win.
 So, I was talking to somebody, every once in a while as a venture capitalist you see lots of founders, and so we saw a founder the other day and I had a very strong positive reaction and this other person had a very strong negative reaction, which is kind of unusual for us as a team.
 And I was trying to figure it out, 'cause like I think at this point in my career I've had probably, I've probably done 10,000 interviews and I've probably hired a thousand or two thousand people.
 And so I feel like I've gotten a fairly good sense, and you start to develop over time.
 But even this part 20 years in, 10,000 interviews, whatever it is, like it's still hard to assess and you still make mistakes and you find it, it's a little bit about where your mental state is and their mental state is.
 But, I mean I guess the first thing I would say is you just practice, practice, practice, keep doing it.
 The other thing is I would say as an organization, especially early you need to talk about it with each other.
 So I was talking to another organization that's 20 people and they're trying to figure out how much to quote standardize their interview process.
 And they're pre-launched, they won't launch for probably six or eight or 12 months.
 I was encouraging them to kinda standardize it now.
 And talk about the parts of the interview process and then talk about it together.
 Because they have time now without being the pressure of it publicly launched.
 And so talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, 'cause then a bunch of that stuff'll become 2nd nature by the time they launch, by the time they run out of time to talk about it.
 - I think one thing I also wanna do a call back to Patrick Collison of Stripe who came in, and one of the things that struck me in what he said was well do you want to hire people from the pool of people who walk in the door and apply to you or do you wanna hire people from the pool of the greatest people in the world at whatever it is that they're doing? And hiring isn't just a matter of hey, I'm gonna put the job listing up and I'm gonna hope people come in.
 You know people go out there and say well they talked to their employees, who's the smartest person you know? And they go out and they find those people and they bring them in.
 Other questions? I'm gonna use the microphone as a way to bring the questions to people as well.
 As a matter of fact, new innovation.
 So pick someone close.
 (laughter) - [Voiceover] So I think we were talking about surprising-- (man speaks off mic) - [Voiceover] surprising things and it seemed incredibly insightful about how you identify young people who have a lot of potential and will do great things in the future.
 And Google hires great people, right? I mean the best programmers go and they wanna go and work at Google.
 But if you think about the best products that Google has come up with, they're all acquisition based.
 And it just tells me that even if you have the best people inside the organization, you have all the money, you just, it's not easy to come up with these product-- - Can we impact that a little bit? So, you said the programmers all wanna go to Google.
 We should debate that for a little while.
 It's 2015, is that still true? I don't know, let's just talk about it.
 The 2nd thing is, you said well all their good products came out through acquisition.
 Was that true? - [Voiceover] Except the search engine, one of the biggest (speaks too quiet off mic to be heard) - Gmail.
 - [Allen] Gmail.
 - But aside from Google search and Gmail.
 (laughter) - [Voiceover] Android maps, all the-- - Maps was internal, well-- - [Allen] No, Maps was not internal.
 - Maps is keyhole and keyhole turn, it's a little bit more complicated than that, because Maps is a fusion of Lars and Brett and Brett was internal.
 - [Voiceover] Plus ads, like the ad tech.
 - Ads were pretty well.
 - [Voiceover] But it's also a product.
 - So this is actually one of the things that Allen was talking about on the way in, which is how do you think about trying to create, as you get very large, things you do to be innovative are maybe different than the things you did before.
 I would argue actually that Google's been better at creating internal innovation than almost any company in the history of the world.
 Google.
 Oh, Apple's a special case.
 I find it hard to, I personally find it hard to reason from Apple as a starting point, because it's such an outlier of company.
 But, what I was gonna say is I think, I find Google interesting.
 I think they've been actually very consistently innovative.
 You can argue about whether, Google Plus was any good or not and stuff like that.
 (laughter) You can't argue very much.
 (laughter) But like Google photos is a legitimately great product.
 Came 100% internal.
 And so, but then the way Google innovates is pretty different than the way Facebook innovates.
 I think Facebook you could argue right now has more acquisition based culture.
 Whats App, Oculus, Instagram, three examples.
 Although, like they have a huge AI lab now and they've got drones coming too.
 So they've got, they're doing innovation too.
 Do you have a point of view? - Yeah, there's a sense of which, I mean as you, this is actually one of the things I think is worth following up on from the OS 4 and OS 5 conversations.
 When you're actually growing, so as we said, OS 3 is about like doubling value, your core business.
 OS 4 is essentially about building that business and making it a mature one.
 And OS 5 is about how do you extend beyond where you actually are.
 So, the problem is, and if you're going through OS 3 and OS 4, and basically you've increased the size of your company a hundred fold, during that time, the issue is that the people you've hired, you've hired in large part because they're extraordinary operators, because they're very, very good at what they do.
 You've come to the place where you've hired a bunch of specialists and in some ways you've weeded out the original entrepreneurial, or at least you've attenuated the entrepreneurial approach within a company by basically really emphasizing operations.
 So then the question is like when you get to OS 5 and LinkedIn just crossed the OS 5 boundary, like literally two weeks ago, we're now just over 10,000 people.
 So, with that in mind, like how do you actually build disruptive innovation? How do you create new things? You've already mentioned Facebook.
 Facebook basically has the ability based on the strength of their existing business, to buy their way into additional innovation.
 LinkedIn we've hired a bunch of people and some of our most innovative leaders inside LinkedIn are the people who came from those acquisitions.
 Which is actually very powerful.
 But then the question is like how do you actually home brew it as well? You can invest in that or you can say we're gonna do it through acquisition.
 It kinda depends on sort of what your business looks like and the way you wanna approach it and who you have to actually run those things.
 'Cause recreating an entrepreneurial environment can be really tough.
 But this challenge of how do you go from, we went from extremely innovative to super successful and how do we get back to extremely innovative is a real challenge.
 - I think Google is actually a very, very positive case.
 'Cause again we forgot the self-driving car, like Google's had a number of projects they bought that have succeeded and invented associated.
 And I was serious when I said I think it's probably the most successful company in the history of the world in terms of generating internal innovation that are unrelated to their core products.
 That have the potential to create other core businesses.
 It just doesn't happen very much.
 - [Voiceover] I would also say that Apple's kind mischaracterized, I think if you see it as doing everything internally, when Tony Fadell kinda brought the iPod in, the O A days was all out of Xerox Park.
 I mean Steve Jobs had a policy of no research at Apple, for years, right? He would wait for a great lab and an academic institution to do a really cool thing.
 And then find out how to productize it and distribute it and market it (mumbles).
 I think it's super valuable, but I just think of it as innovation as being like having a blank slate, inventing something, kinda (mumbling) model, oh it's all from scratch, all from inside.
 It's interesting, but not necessarily something I'm gonna do.
 - I think Apple has a bunch of processes of innovation, a bunch of user experience innovation, a bunch of manufacturing innovation.
 Like it's pretty hard to argue that the iPhone wasn't profoundly innovative.
 You know, on a bunch of a different-- - [Voiceover] Oh, totally, I worked at Apple for a while and I loved it, I'm just saying I think the-- - Oh I'm not being defensive about Apple, like we're all Apple fan boys, or whatever, but like.
 (man mumbles and laughs at mic) - [Student in white] Could you guys talk a little bit about tactics and strategies to help convince other people to work with you? - Help other people work with you.
 - You mean how to hire people? - [Student in white] Yeah, but not just finding talent, but being able to convince them that they should come work with you and not someone else.
 - Yeah, be really good and have other really good people around you mostly.
 (laughter) I'm not kidding, - [Allen] That's really it.
 - Work on something that matters.
 Have really smart people doing it.
 And be able to explain why it matters.
 I think that's not-- - Couldn't agree more.
 I mean just the ability for me to say I'm gonna go work every day, to work every day, I'm gonna work with somebody who's really awesome.
 Man, that matters more than almost anything else in terms of attracting somebody to a space.
 And then you've got people who are aligned with a mission or aligned with the technology they wanna use or they're gonna have a role which aligns with who they are personally.
 You got those things, you have a great argument.
 LinkedIn fights on this all the time.
 Because basically we have to fight every startup and every big company in terms of attracting talent.
 How do we continue to get good talent? Well just so happens that our culture, our values, our missions, everything are really our differentiator.
 And that has allowed us to attract good people and now we have good people we can offer as well.
 - And at the end of the day-- - I know you feel like, the way you're looking at me, you probably feel it's like we're just glossing over it, but we're not.
 That was a specific and real answer.
 (laughter) - Come down the video the face, to see what I'm talking about.
 (all three talking over each other) - What I would also say is, I mean I think that the advice that John or Allen would give to you is basically that there's no certainty in this world in terms of which startups are gonna work.
 There's no certainty as to what products are gonna work.
 I mean, shocking as this may sound, not every investment works out and not every company goes on to become Facebook or Google or LinkedIn as the case were.
 So, many times the only thing you can actually control is who you choose to work with.
 And as you guys go out there, those of you who are undergrads or grad students going out into the workforce and working for folks, part of it's gonna be the mission, part of it's gonna be the technology you get to work on, but part of it is just are these the people I wanna spend the next several years of my life with, probably more time than I would spend with any immediate family member, is that what I really wanna do with me life? - And for what it's worth, it's also the people you'll create your next startup with.
 'Cause you're gonna create the next startup with the people you're working with at your current company.
 - Okay, I'm gonna go to the back row on this side.
 - [Voiceover] Thank you.
 I wanna ask as question I didn't really get to ask Jeff Weiner.
 And so I think he talked a lot about compassionate management.
 A lot of people did, talk about sort of the idea of leading by inspiring people.
 And that's extremely important and I'm trying to figure out how to combine that with keeping people working hard.
 I mean at the same time you're in a startup, you have people who, you know, usually during the first couple months everybody just has to work hard as fuck.
 And certainly that's true in stages one or two, it might be less true at LinkedIn right now, but I went and asked him afterwards, what do you do with somebody who's really inspired from 11 am. to three pm.
 and he said, that's fine.
 And I disagree, so, what do you do about that? - Is that fine, do you have people who work from 11 to three at LinkedIn? Because I've got, (laughing) I'm interested.
 That sounds great! - I don't think we have anybody who works from 11 to three.
 Sorry to disappoint.
 I think, so, every employee basically has four, this is just off the top of my head, but has four main areas which encourage them to participate.
 So the first one, the most important one, is your own motivation, whatever it actually is.
 Second one is leadership, which basically allows you to align your own motivation with what's actually happening.
 This is something that Jeff is totally extraordinary at.
 The 3rd one is you have directives, you have your manager who's telling you what to do.
 This is actually the difference between, as he said, the difference between leadership and management.
 Management is about like responsibility, are we actually getting all the shit done that we signed up to get done.
 And the final thing is your colleagues.
 So, those colleagues, if you see the people around you working hard, you're gonna work hard as well.
 So it's not like the leader is alone responsible for making those things happen.
 The leader can be responsible for making sure that people feel the motivation and understand in their own minds how the things that they're doing connect to the things they care about.
 That's really what leadership is, that's what inspiration is about.
 - Yeah, I think compassion is a misunderstood word in this context.
 I don't think it means being gentle or nice, - Definitely not.
 - [John] or soft.
 I think what you're trying to do is try to understand and you're trying to figure out how to get, close gaps is the way I would put it.
 So, a lot of times, especially with my directs at Mozilla, they said oh I think I should be a VP or I think I should be this level or that level or whatever.
 And I said, okay, I hear you.
 Let's talk about what the delta is between where you are now and what you aspire to be.
 So let's talk about the gap between here and there.
 And let's talk about how to quantify and understand the gaps.
 And then let's talk about what we can do to close them.
 And then, let's try to figure out a plan to close those gaps over the next 90 days or 180 days, or whatever.
 And if we can demonstrate that, then we'll give you what you want.
 If you can't, we won't, we'll do something different.
 And so I think that what I would argue is that that's a very specific metrics driven way to understand somebody, what they want, and try to give it to them.
 Which I think is fundamentally compassionate.
 But it's not really about yeah you wanna work like four hours a day.
 I think that the compassion word will confuse people and I think Jeff went kind of way out of his way to explain that it wasn't really just being nice to people.
 But yeah, I think that, yeah I don't know, that's what I would say.
 - I think two more questions then we'll turn off the camera so you can really ask some good questions.
 So since I'm lazy I'm gonna go to the first row.
 - [Voiceover] My question is about product market fit and how we've talked about how it's reiterative process.
 So you do it multiple times until you figure it out.
 But like, Brian Chesky went a year and he admitted that him and his buddies were like, you know, working on some other side stuff and then like they also kinda were not necessarily doing the Airbnb thing, they made a rent a roommate.
 The VC from Floodgate talked about how the lift people worked for multiple years on like other stuff, but then you got like Facebook, you've got Survey Monkey, like the startup about Survey Monkey.
 So, I guess the question is if product market fit is like the biggest thing at OS 1, right? Like then how can you justify working on something that, what should the expectation be? Should the expectation be of building something, like Survey Monkey and refine it, right? Or should the expectation be like oh no, like that's that deep core fundamental intuition, like Brian Chesky had with Airbnb and try different ways of making it work? - Good question.
 - Look, everyone's different.
 And we work and we play and we learn for different reasons.
 And so I think, I think product market fit is important.
 And it's important to be successful, but equally important is working on something you give a damn about.
 And so what I would say is that finding product market fit in something you hate is kind of a disaster because you're like (audio cuts out) this is a great business and I really hate doing it.
 You know and for me, like, (laughter) like you laugh, - [Voiceover] It happens.
 - many entrepreneurs, you ask them, it's like do you like ad serving or do you like insurance brokering? And they're like no, but this is like, it's a top down, it's a big marketing opportunity, I can't avoid it.
 And I think I've got this angle.
 And you laugh but it's not, a lot of people intellectualize themselves into saying here's a thing I can build that will totally work.
 And I think that's a good way to start building things that don't matter and you don't care about.
 Some people, for some people that totally works for them and they'll build the company up and they'll sell it and then they'll go live on the beach or whatever they wanna do.
 For some others it doesn't work and so I think it's that question, answering that question you have to understand a lot about who you are and what you care about and how you run.
 I don't know how you guys would answer.
 - Yeah I would say for most of you though, and again because you're here at Stanford, amazing institution, obviously we're very big fans of it, - [John] Acceptable.
 - Exactly.
 (Allen laughing) But for most of you, you're probably gonna succeed at whatever you end up trying to do.
 And you'll know this because the school's gonna hammer you relentlessly with appeals for money from now until the day you die.
 (laughter) And so, if you're probably gonna be successful, why don't you go ahead and try to find a way to be successful at something that you actually enjoy.
 And I do think that a lot of what you should do is to look inside yourself and look at what are the things that you've actually tried and enjoyed.
 A lot of people try to intuit the meaning of life or the purpose of their life.
 I'm like that's kinda hard to do, why don't you try doing stuff.
 And do more of the stuff that seems to feel right.
 - And the things that actually motivate you are gonna be different and the ways in which you approach it are gonna be different.
 Intuition is actually, some people really rely on intuition and in a lot of ways a good piece of recommendation is work on something which is actually solving a problem for yourself.
 Because then you can take advantage of your own intuitions about what a solution actually looks like.
 But, there are people out there who are motivated by building a great business or by executing an amazing strategy or whatever, and those sets of motivations are equally valid.
 Whatever it is has gotta give you the motivation to get up out of bed after four hours of sleep and go back and do it again.
 - Alright, so, you had your hand up.
 This'll be the last televised question.
 - [Voiceover] So one thing I thought that was interesting Brian Chesky was talking about how now where Airbnb is, he said he could take two months off and it would more or less run the same.
 And the two big questions he was saying was, what's our second product and how do I allow the culture to expand.
 While we're expanding how do I keep the culture intact? So, how have you guys moved from more of an operator to a more strategic, big picture, I'll even say fuzzier, longer term operation? You know capacity and how did that change your daily routine and how did that change your thinking, how, just all of that.
 - Do you want me to talk about that? - So my original role at LinkedIn, as you know, was I was the original head of product.
 And then I ended up running a big, as we got bigger I ran a big section of the product organization.
 And then two years ago I made a shift from a sort of silent operational role where I ran product for a big chunk of what we actually did, into a central strategy role.
 Part of the reason I actually did that, was that I am pretty good at thinking about the big strategy, so forth, and most importantly the company needed somebody central in the product organization who had broad visibility into it who moreover had the ability to actually influence our strategy at scale.
 That influence actually comes from the fact that I'm a founder.
 Founders have strange powers at organizations.
 And those strange powers are kind of a form of moral authority.
 And that moral authority is something that you can use to get people to listen to you.
 On stuff which, in our case, is outside the operational realm.
 So I made this move to the center because it allowed, because basically I'm kind of uniquely positioned to be able to have that strategic influence in the company.
 So my transition was completely from literally day to day, one on ones, managing people, signing expense reports, doing quarterly planning, reporting things out, fixing the dashboards, all the other stuff you need to do when you're like, have purely operational role.
 - Working for a living.
 - But now I get there at 11 and I leave at three.
 (laughter) That's actually not true, but now I spend time working with every single product leader in the organization, just sitting down and working with them on strategy.
 And then trying to bring it all together in one place.
 So it's a radically different kind of work.
 - My only sort of caution to you would be it's hard to go the other direction.
 So it's hard to go, so I started my career at technical and then I moved to management and then I moved from management to meta-management, then management to whatever I do now.
 And as Chris Barber, who's an intern at GreyLock, will tell you, my direct management skills pretty well suck right now and they're way better than my coding skills are so it's very hard to go, it gets, I would stay as technical and stay as hands on as long as you possibly can, because it's very, very hard to go the other direction again.
 - So with that, one last thing.
 Since our esteemed colleague Reid isn't here today, I figured I'd end by quoting him, or at least paraphrasing him.
 - Good, because not enough people quote Reid.
 (laughing) That's good, we're gonna get him a little air time.
 - There you go, this is for you, Reid.
 (laughter) So as you know, one of the things that Reid likes to talk about is that launching a startup is like jumping off a cliff and assembling an airplane on the way down.
 And what he's gonna need to do to add to that saying is in fact you have to do it multiple times.
 Because each time your company scales up to a next phase, it's essentially like you found another cliff, and you jumped off it and now you gotta build another damn airplane.
 So, hopefully we've taken the topics of this class and given you guys some of the tools to build those airplanes.
 And we're looking forward to seeing what you guys build.
 Thanks.
