WEBVTTKind: captionsLanguage: en- [Voiceover] So welcome,great to see you all here.
This class what we'regoing to do is two parts,the first part is Michael is going to givea lecture that he has prepared whichI am actually looking forward to,I've actually gotten some preview of itand I actually brought my cardsto take notes becauseI'm also going to havethe privilege of leading the questions.
We have selected questions from the thingsthat you guys have submitted alreadyand I have those on index cardsin addition to my ownand I'll interweave them,I've actually sent them all to Michaelin the just in time basisabout 45 minutes ago,so he's now computing like,oh, those are the questions that'llcome after the lecture.
And so as a quick introduction to Michael,Michael teaches at the D school,he actually teaches entrepreneurshiphe runs a very successful early stageventure capital practicecalled Harrison Metal.
The way that Michael and I metis I tried two or threetimes to recruit himto LinkedIn to which hetold me no each time,we'll get to that maybe more in the Q &amp; Abut he is an excellent investor,an excellent product guyand an excellent scale executiveso we asked him to come and share someof his wisdom with us.
That's it.
- Thank you for the invitation.
(laughs) This is gonnabe a little strange,but I'm gonna ask you to come with meback in time.
And I want to talk to you about a heroof capitalism who's long dead,that's the footnote from Beyond the Grave.
Poor John Lilly isstuck flipping my slides- [Reid] We're fixingthat for the next class.
(John laughs)- Awesome.
Okay so let's dive intoheroes of capitalism.
The first thing that I wantto give you context for,and believe me this alldoes tie right back tostartups and entrepreneurship I promise.
The first thing I want to give you isa thousand years of context.
I want to give you a thousand yearsof reasons why what we're talking aboutin this room matters.
If you can see this and read the title,just digest it for a secondand then maybe somebody give us a guidedtour of this slide,this exhibit.
What is this?- [Student] Exponential growth.
- Of?(unclear response)GDP per capita, right?So it's the economic outputof every person onearth from the year 1000to the year 2000.
I wish I had the brainpower to come up withthis dataset but I don't.
But I did steal it from a person namedJ. Bradford DeLong whoteaches economics at Berkeley.
And Professor DeLong did his study,his paper was actuallyestimating world GDPone million BC to the present.
I cut the million part off,the million to one thousand part becausethe answer is it's really low.
(laughter)And this tells the storywell enough for me.
So therefore it works for you too.
So real GDP per capita constant dollars,over time, over a thousand year spanon a semi-log scale.
So what we're able to do here is to seean incredible change in the circumstancesof being human on earth.
Give me your thoughts about this curve.
When you look at it what are some ofthe features that jump out at you,some of the landmarks thatreally stand out to you.
(indistinct response)Yeah.
Roundabout the 13th century,any guesses what that is?- [Students] The plague.
- The plague.
Yeah, yeah.
In case you ever do build a time machineplease do not put the settings to thatbecause you'll have a one in three chanceof not coming home.
The population drop was precipitous,particularly in Europe.
And so the productivity,is really what GDP per capita isis productivity collapsed.
Now if we go forward in time,what else do you notice about this curve?- [Student] Industrial revolution?- Industrial revolutionand where do you seethat beginning?(indistinct response)Yeah.
This inflection point,kind of hard to miss right?It's the most obviousfeature of this chart,with the exception ofthe incredible amountof flatness over the preceding 700 years.
So the flatness with the extra painful dipreally bad.
Have you ever lived througha low-growth situation?Now try doing that for 30 generations.
That would suck.
This inflection pointindustrial revolution,anybody remember from maybe otherhistory courses you've takenor just your own readings,what were some of thebig things that happenedto make that inflection point possible?- [Student] I heard thatit's correlated nicelywith the construction of coffee shops.
- Really.
(laughter)- [Student] (indistinct)... and you can correlate this graph withthe rise of coffee shops, not Starbucks.
(laughter)(indistinct speaking)- That's fascinating but I buy it.
The exchange of ideas--certainly something changed herewith respect to think aboutthe density of population in someof the cities,the mobility of people to be ableto spend time with one another.
Mostly because they weren't inthe fields trying to come up withtheir next meal, right,they had some more freetime to exchange ideas.
Yeah what else do you think happened here?- [Student] So like coffeeshops like Lloyd's of London,the first insurance company was foundedin a coffee shop by a guy named Lloydin London near the docks.
- Okay.
- [Student] So oncepeople were able to haveinsurance for businessventures they could goin and take more risks.
And therefore--it's riskful work so you could havea much greater potential incomeif you do take risks...
(indistinct)- Okay so in that sense you might actuallygo back to Adam Smith and saythe division of labor there startedto get more granular.
There were specialists in provisionof coffee, the provision of insurancethere might have been specialistsin the invention of new technologies.
I want to read to you--- [Student] Where?America.
(laughter)So that falls into the bucket of like,heavily loaded one lineclass participation.
(laughter)So give me the highlights of what you meanby America.
- [Student] 1776 America was founded.
- Yeah.
(laughter)This is the spirit thatmade America great,is the willingness in your first yearof undergraduate.
Right, you're a freshman.
(laughter and applause)No I'm dead serious,this is the courage that we depend onto fuel that curve.
I want to read to you a paragraph,we'll come back to this I promise,I'm not blowing you off but I needto think a little bit about how to respondto you so I'm gonna stallby reading Schumpeter.
Joseph Schumpeter wrote this book,Capitalism, Socialism and Democracyand he wrote it in the late 1930s,early 1940s.
And the paragraph I want to read to youI think is really special.
You'll probably recognizesome of these termswhen we get to them.
This is Schumpeterwriting about capitalism.
Writing about this.
The opening up of new markets,foreign or domestic and the organizationaldevelopment from the craft shopand factory to such concerns as U.S. steelillustrate the same processof industrial mutation,if I may use a biological term,that incessantlyrevolutionizes the economicstructure from within,incessantly destroying the old one,incessantly creating a new one.
This process of Creative Destruction,capital C, capital D,is the essential fact of capitalism.
Schumpeter believed thiswas due to entrepreneurship.
It was due to people you never heard ofstarting businesses you couldn'tquite believe were real,completely unsettling the economic outputmodel for the economy.
A couple other thingshappened at this time too.
One was plentiful sources of cheap energybecame available in the form ofcoal, steam, eventuallyoil in the early partof the 20th centuryso that the scale of the inventions,the inventions that these entrepreneurscame up with,the scale could be many, many timesgreater than anythingthat had been seen before.
Humans didn't suddenly becomea creative species in the late 1700s.
They just started to get bigger leversand gears to turn themachines they built with.
So power was a huge part of this.
The revolution in technical innovation,in transportation like the railroads,in mechanization like spinning cotton,all of those things played a huge rolein that inflection point.
The other person--John if you could flip ahead, thank you.
The other person that's really importantto know about is this person,Al Chandler.
Al Chandler founded the Disciplineof Business History at theHarvard Business School.
Before he retired and sadly passed away,I had a chance to spenda lot of time with himand his colleagues at Harvard.
Chandler's view was Schumpeter's right.
Entrepreneurs play anincredibly central rolein the process of industrial capitalism,in the growth of output,in the wealth of humanity.
But managers play anequally important rolein amplifying the geniusof those creative founders.
Chandler's whole view was thatthe managerial revolution,which scaled with these companies.
Remember the entrepreneurs came up withthe technology,the company scaledbecause of energy sources,they had to be managed at a scale that wasunlike anything everseen before in history.
And so Chandler says that this inventionof managerial capitalismwas a fundamentallynew invention that camewith industrialization.
So what do we have?We have this painfully flat periodof about 700 or 800 years,we have this rapid change in directionof output per person on the planet Earth,by the way totally unequally shared,correlates beautifullywith population growth,collapse in infant mortality,the widespread availability of education,medicine, et cetera.
The increase in the dirtiness of our air,some would argue thetemperature of the planet,this is a mix of things here happening.
But all of the terriblethings that came before it,now we finally have an enginethat can pay the bill to fix those thingsthat are horrifying about life on Earth.
Slavery, war for food, all of these thingswere commonplace in this period.
They were invented long before capitalism.
Capitalism finally gave us an engineto pay the bill to getrid of these things.
This is the context,the thousand year context that I wantto have in our mind when wetalk about entrepreneurship.
Yeah?- [Student] (unclear question)- Well if I understandthe point correctly,yes the ability of the colonial powersto distribute technology,ways of work, legal structures,not by choice but by forcewas a huge driver of economic growthin this period.
But what's interestingabout industrializationin each of the countrieswhere it happened,first in Britain then in the United Statesand now in places like China and Indiain the last half-century,it always comes with anexpansion of political freedom.
It always comes with an expansionof personal freedom,it always comes withthe writing of terriblehundred year, manycenturies old injustices.
And we're gonna come backto that topic in a second.
Go ahead.
The other thing to note that connects youand what you're talking about in this roomto the really importantstuff in human history,the money that comes to Silicon Valleyto fund these startups,to fund entrepreneurship,to fund the creative destruction of today.
It doesn't come from the wealthy fat cats,some of it does,but a lot of it,most of it comes fromresearch institutions,universities, museums,foundations, hospitals,the guardians of civilization.
So this cycle of Creative Destructionthat drives economic productivitythat spins off wealth that comes backand fuels institutions,that is something tobe very, very aware of.
The cycle is all linked.
No pressure, but it's yourturn to drive this train.
We've got to understandthe Schumpeterian viewof entrepreneurs as the engineof Creative Destruction.
We've got to embracethe role of managerialcapitalism to scale and amplifythe genius of those founders.
We've got to use to proceedsof whatever we createto make that situation--make our situation betterto eliminate thosethings that are terribleabout being on earththat have been around for a long time.
Poverty, injustice, ignorance,sickness, et cetera.
No pressure butcivilization depends on you.
There are three really fascinating partsof this curve.
I've zoomed in here just to reorient.
Same curve zoomed in on period1800 to 2000.
And there's three separateperiods in that windowthat are really interesting.
The first is the mechanizationof manufactured cotton.
The second is thetransportation revolution,characterized mainly by the railroads,the railroads of Western Europeand the United Statesand third the technology revolutionof Silicon Valley and the modern agethat we know so well.
We're going to zoom inkind of right about here.
Early on--No we're not gonna do Slater's Mill today,although we could.
We're gonna do railroads.
Sorry I left a Slater'sMill slide in there.
The thing to know about railroadsis that they were startups once.
They were startups once.
This is a locomotive that was manufacturedin 1830 in the UK.
And at one time this was a startupvery much like the startups that you knowand love of today in Silicon Valley.
And the startups were run bypeople like this.
This is Daniel McCallumand he's the hero of capitalismwho's going to speak to usfrom Beyond the Grave today.
This is him in later life obviously,but when he started outhe came to America in 1822,he was born in Scotland,his family moved to Upstate New Yorkwhen he was just seven years old.
He came to Upstate New York from Scotland,he looked at what hisfather did for a living,his dad was a tailor,and he decided the tailoring thingis not so much for me.
So he started to think aboutwhat else he could do.
Very young boy 12, 13 years oldbegan to work with wood.
He taught himself how to buildpractically anything with wood.
He ended up creating something calledThe McCallum Arched Truss Bridgewhich got him a patent.
He became something of a magicianwith wood-working and with bridge-making.
So self taught woodworker becameself taught architectbecame patented architectwas hired by the NewYork and Eerie Railroadto be the bridge apprenticein Upstate New York.
He was then promoted--this was all the span of a couple yearsin between each of these milestones--he was then promoted to head of bridges,to superintendent of bridges pardon me,for the entire line,then was given a general manager promotionto the head of the Susquehanna branchof the railroadand then finally become the CEOof the entire railroadwhen he was about 43 years old.
So this was somebody,if you just looked athis career you would saythis is about asentrepreneurial as it gets.
Son of immigrants decided he had nofuture prospects inthe tailoring business,decided to go into something he lovedworking with wood,continued to get promotedand create a career for himselfout of thin air.
Found himself inside a companythat had once been a startupthat he knew well and lovedas a local member of the teamin Upstate New York,but then got promoted to be the headof the whole thing.
And let me give you a sense of the scopeof the whole thing.
This is his bridge by the way.
The nice thing about this bridgeis it lasted a lot longer than typicalbridge designs and itrequired substantiallyless maintenance.
And so you can imagine why in thecapital constrainedearly days of railroadsthat would be a really good thing forthe railroads to have.
So this was his claim to fame,he built many of these bridgesthroughout the Northeast.
This is the scope of his operation.
He started out as a maybe third or fourthrung employee in Upstate New Yorkon one of those tiny red linesand he ended up running this whole thing.
So why does this matter I thought wewere talking about startups,not big huge enterprises?It matters because McCallum in 1855wrote a beautiful letter to his boss.
And the letter he wrote to his boss,you can have it it's online.
It's one of the earliestwritings that survivedanybody saying here's what I thinkabout general management,here's why it matters what we doas general managers.
And in this document he writes aboutthe incredible--the relative ease and fun and joyhe got working on a small railroadof 50 miles long in Upstate New York,and compared it to the toil and sufferingand awfulness of trying to run a roadten times or 100 times longer.
And so McCallum wrote this letterto his boss just to saywe gotta rethink how we do thisbecause we've lost,essentially, he says it in a more19th century hard to understand way,but he says we've lost what made it easyand fun running a small companybecause now we're trying to runthis big behemoth.
Does that make sense?And this goes very far West,I mean this is all the way into Kansasterritory 1850s so you get the idea.
I will save you--you should go read this letter,but I will save you allof the pain and sufferingof reading it if you don't want toand tell you what he says.
He says the joy ofrunning that 50 mile roadwas because I could seepeople with my own eyes,I could talk to them with my own voice,I could get the group of peopleto work on the rightstuff at the right time.
I could give those people responsibilitybecause I knew who they were.
I had a personal connection to them.
I was also able to makesure the job was gettingdone day in day out because I wasputting my own eyes on the problem.
And in that 50 mile roadin the startup railroad,I knew how things were going becauseI could see the trains moving or not,I could see the freightcoming and going or not.
It was always very visible to me.
And also in the 50 mile roadwe had a relationship with each otherwe had respect for each otherand we talked to eachother like human beings.
In the 500 mile roador the 5,000 mile roadall of this went away.
And so McCallum was struggling to sayhow do I bring back what I loved aboutthe small road to the big road.
And these are the five questionsthat he asked his boss.
He of course had an answerfor each one of these,for example how do you makesure the job gets done?His answer was you geton the freakin' telegraphand every hour you tell mehow it's going in Nebraska.
And you tell me in this formatso my clerk can write it on the boardand I can stand in New York Cityand I can see how it's goingout in the Hinterlands.
And every hour on the houryou send this formatted updateback and forth using telegraphand that's how I replicatethe visibility I hadat the small company levelto the big company level.
Does this make sense?Any observations about this list,anything surprise youabout McCallum's listof key questions for managers?Or about history in general?Yeah.
- [Student] It's very applicable to today.
- Isn't it crazy?The first time I read thiswhich was about 25 yearsago in grad school,I really thought this isodd that somebody who,remember apprenticed as a woodworker,no formal training,didn't educationallygo beyond grade school.
There's no such thing as business schoolthere's no role modelshe had no apprenticeshiphe was promoted every 24ish monthsinto higher and higher levelsof responsibility with noclue what he was doing.
He basically admits asmuch in this letter.
These questions are really useful today.
- [Student] There are no financialconstraints or goals in there.
- Yeah.
It does kind of take for grantedthe financial viability of the businesswhich by the way was nota good thing to take for grantedbecause about two or three yearsafter he wrote this letter,the railroad failed.
(laughter)But you know,we honor that (laughs)I should say more importantlythan all that stuff you saw--can you flip it back tothe picture of him?You see what uniform he's wearing.
He became the master of railroadsfor the Union Army, thank God.
Right 'cause if he'dbeen in the Confederateswe wouldn't be talkingabout Daniel McCallum.
He was on the Union's side,he played a huge important rolein commandeering the suppliesto feed General Sherman'sattack on Atlanta.
Hero of the Civil War as well ashero of capitalism.
Yeah these five questions.
No financial milestones ora preoccupation with finances,still pretty relevant today.
Anything else jump out at you?Yeah?- [Student] He appears pretty enlightenedfor I guess working withquadrennial workers.
- Yeah.
- [Student] He's concernedwith his providence...
- The fact that this is on the list,now the way he says itis something to the effect ofexecute all of the above so as not tocreate embarrassment for the management,the managers.
That idea of respect wasreally totally surprisingand very unique I think for the times.
Yeah?- [Student] Not onlyhow applicable they arebut how unsolved they still areand he wrote this 170 years ago.
- I find it a great relief thatI'm not the only one who doesn'tknow how to do any of these things,or who tries to figure out ways to do it.
This has been going on a long time,this has happened before,still unresolved.
Was there somebody hada hand over here, no?Anything else before we keep going on?Okay.
Just to put this in context,what was McCallum doing?He was participating in his ownsmall way right about herewhere the shape of this curve was byno means a foregone conclusion,in fact they didn't even knowthat it was going this way.
They sort of felt likesomething was differentbut they didn't knowit was going this way.
They certainly didn't knowthe amount of wealth that theywere part of creating.
And they certainly didn't know that whatMcCallum was doing in a weird way,was directly tied to that injusticestuff that I talked to you about before.
This is a book calledThings as they are in America.
A British guy named William Chamberscame to America in the late 1840s,early 1850s and he wrote a diaryof what he observed in the thenvery young country pre-Civil War.
So one of the stops he made wasto see the slave auctionsin Virginia.
And I'm gonna read to you--this was happening a few hundred milesto the South of where McCallumwas struggling with these lofty ideas of,geez, how do we getpeople to work togetherand how do we make sure thatthe work gets doneand how do we make sure thatthe right amount of responsibilityis conferred on people?All those general management challengesthat he laid out in his letterabout the railroad,a couple hundred miles to the South.
This is Chambers writing abouthis visit to Richmond.
Here according to the announcementon the paper stuck to the flag,there were to be solda woman and three children.
A young woman, three men,a middle-aged woman and a little boy.
Already a crowd had met,composed I should think of personsmostly from the cottonplantations of the South.
He goes on to describe the situations,the situation in the room wherethe auction was being held.
And he writes,while intending purchases wereproceeding with personal examinationsof the several lots,what he means by that is thatthe people who came to buythe other human beings was pokingand prodding them andlooking in their mouthand checking their handsto understand how much theyshould pay for those people.
I took the liberty ofputting a few questionsto the mother of the children.
The following was our conversation.
Are you married, woman?Yes sir.
How many children have you had?Seven.
Where is your husband?In Madison County.
When did you part from him?On Wednesday two days ago.
Were you sorry to part from him?Yes sir, she replied with a deep sigh.
My heart almost abroke.
Why is your master selling you?I don't know.
He wants money to buy some land.
I suppose he sells me for that.
This cures that.
That's why what you're doing matters.
This would never have happenedwithout people like McCallumand the wealth that was createdfrom that industrial revolutionpaid for the destruction of thisdisgusting industry.
So that's why it matters.
Oh that's it.
So no pressure,but civilization depends on you.
And now I'd be happy to have a chat.
- [Voiceover] So in reading McCallum'sletter did you get a sense that hewas a micromanager?- [Michael] Oh terrible.
- Yeah.
- Terrible, he hadpractices not only for those telegraphrules that I mentioned before,excruciating detailabout how the telegramswere to be addressed,the time table on which they weresupposed to happen,how you would decide to break a tiebetween two trains on the same track,it was an excruciatinglydetailed operating manual.
- So it might be somewhatgiven the education level,but he was like send mea telegram every hour,I can imagine a startupin Silicon Valley sayingreport your status everyhour (laughs) right?It wouldn't be a greattalent retention strategy.
- No he was flailing around for any toolhe could get his hands on to tryto recreate the intimacy of managinga small business on a large oneand of course he failed completely.
- Well and the financial onewas a very good question.
It was kind of a question ofwell there's other things that go intodoing this although,before the lecture Ididn't know about McCallumand he actually may be the veryfirst example of a systematic attackon the scale up problem.
So in the book we're working on,we're going to read the letterand we're going to see ifwe're going to include itso it's awesome.
So when you look at the curve,one part of that curveis obviously capitalism.
- Yes.
- But another part of it's alsoinvention of technology.
And those two are actually in factobviously somewhat correlatedalthough how deeply isa little bit unclear.
When you think about this exponentialgrowth and value how much do you attributeto the incentive system that essentiallycapitalism does to create a decentralizedsystem of incentives,and how much technology inventionand how do you look at that curve?Or that cycle?- I think of them as mutually reinforcingand if you took one awaythe other would collapse.
And we know that because we accidentallyran an experiment for800 years as a planetwhere we had lots of smartpeople running aroundinventing new ways to do things,you could look at banking in Florenceor printing in England,but these became very small enterprises.
They sort of topped out at like the 20-30people range and of course the capitalthat accumulated aroundthose businesses was tiny.
What really unleashed it in my viewwas the disconnection of the good ideasfrom the money from the management.
So when you had to have one personwho happened to have money,happened to have great ideasand happened to have managerial ambitions,that's a small set of people.
When you suddenly sayah, the money people can be differentthan the inventor and the inventorcan yet be differentthan the general manager,that allows a multitude of connectionsthat wouldn't have happened otherwise.
- And when you did this kind of learning,did you also include kind of the weirdparadox of venture capital that wasessentially invented post World War II?So it's actually very late in that curve.
- It is very late in that curveand I think what you have to look atis the substitutes for venture capitalwere essentially rich families,and rich institutions and you can go backto Slater's Mill,the people who put the capitalfor Slater's Mill.
Oh that's why I had thatdamn slide in there.
The people who put up thecapital for Slater's Millwere the Brown family of Providence,the people after whomBrown University was named.
This was a family that made their fortunein the slave trade andthen the textile business.
And then had no clue how to mechanizetheir spinning operations.
Slater was the embodiment of somebodywho had the technicalskill and inventivenessideas mostly which he stole from the UKand they were able topair together in a waythat wouldn't have beenpossible previously.
In prior generations the Brown familywould have had to have the incrediblegood fortune ofunderstanding the technologyand having the money.
Now all they had to do was be richand they were good at that.
- And also by the way the historyof venture capital actually it's all movedin many of the elite funds tothe institutions you're mentioning.
But actually the startingof them was actuallyalso wealthy families.
- Yes.
- By the way it was asimilar kind of thingthat was kind of an interesting- Absolutely.
- recapitulation of history.
- Yep.
- Alright now shifting somewhat,we're getting to hone into some ofthe scale of stuff but at the very broad.
So it's kind of a callto arms for capitalism.
It's a call to arms for entrepreneurshipit's a call to arms forcreative construction.
When should someone,we have a bunch of students here,when should they consider doing a startupand when should they not considerdoing a startup and how is some ofthe way to think about that?- Well one of the things I've noticedover the last about eight years I've beenexclusively focused onearly-stage venturesis that they kind ofcan't keep it inside them.
It kind of bursts out whether it'sa good idea or a bad idea.
The founder has this explosion thatthey can't keep inside anymoreand they irrationally allocate timeand resources to this idea becausethey can't stop thinking about it.
I think that's a prerequisiteif you're gonna--so if you smell that about yourself,if you feel like you can't stop thinkingor working on an idea,if you find that you're working on an ideaand the hands of the clock moveand you never even noticed thatthe sun went down andyou missed two meals,that's a really good signthat you have an ideayou have to get out of your system.
The other characteristics I thinkof the folks when they know they're readyis that they are accidentally,not even trying to recruit other people,but accidentally getting their friendsfired up too.
And so the friends comeand start saying like,hey remember that thing youtold me about last week,I was thinking about it a little bit more.
I'm not like a mystical person,but I kind of think themarket talks to you,that's the market talking to you,that's the market saying tell me more,I'm pulling on you for more insight.
If you have those circumstances going onthose are good indicators it's timeto do something about it.
- And what are theindicators you would usefor checking the idea.
Because obviously you could have thoseindicators you could be crazy about them.
- Yes.
- You could be jumping off a cliff with noability to assemble an airplaneon the way down.
- Right.
- What are the crosschecks youthink people should do?- One really good one is to givea chunk of time in the scheduleto devil's advocacy.
And this was a tactic that I learnedfrom Michael Eisner at Disney.
I didn't work for him but I worked forsomebody who worked for himand the whole idea there wasevery big good idea is going to besubjected to a devil's advocate case.
And somebody probably the smartestperson he could find is going to bein charge of trying to destroy your idea.
And he or she isn'tgonna be held as like--they're not going to be considered to beout of bounds for tryingto destroy your ideait was their job to tryto destroy your idea.
And that technique of sayingokay you please spend the next two daysfinding everything wrong with this,and then you have full permissionto be the biggest asshole you ever met,trying to torpedo this idea.
If you can find some people in your lifewho can play that role,that's a huge positive as a founder.
I think the other technique that I liketo do with founders islet's do a pre-mortem.
Let's admit now that we failed.
And let's forecast what it is that wouldhave gone wrong to cause our death.
And if we can do that openly and honestlyand make a list of whatthose deadly risks arefacing us in our venture,we may decide to bail we may decideto keep going,but we can't keep going withoutbuilding shock absorbers for those risks.
- Love the two ideas,the version of the first one iswhen you talk to everysmart person you knowand you should specifically ask themwhat's wrong on the idea.
Because the problem whenyou're talking to themI go to my friend Michael and saywhat do you think of my idea?They'll be like oh he wants reassurance,so oh it's great.
- Yeah.
- You should do that.
That's terrible that should benegative value not positive.
But what's broken?I think I already calledJohn out on tellingme that LinkedIn was a totally bad idea.
(indistinct speaking from audience member)- Yes that's true that'sa very good point.
- People need that by the way,people need that permission from youas a founder.
For you to give them permission to sayI want you to be negative nowI don't even care if you believe itbut give me your best shot.
That social permission,especially in an area that's so happysmiles and rainbows asI was gonna say Silicon Valleybut Stanford's that way too,in a good way.
Let's have a little bit of shock absorberagainst the rainbows.
- And actually specifically part ofthe thing that John's feedback wasvery good on is that you can'tbuild to enough critical massand so that helped confirmthe strategic thing wasthe very first thingat LinkedIn was tobuild the critical mass.
Because when you get to good feedback,it doesn't necessarily die,but they say ooh this is the mine.
Make it past this mine becausesmart people going this is the mineyou're like pay attention to that.
Make sure you understand thatand that became the very top list thingthat Allen and I and abunch of other peoplewere working on on a daily basis.
Last thing in terms of founding a startupor at least this part of it,what role do you thinkconsidering competitionshould be on whether or not you havea good idea or not?- A lot of times the founders whopause on the issue of competition,they pause for the wrong reasonsand they say things like,well isn't big companyXYZ going to do somethingjust like this?That's totally irrelevant.
That's totally irrelevant.
The perfectly competitive productthat promises what your product promisesis almost never the actual competition.
The competition is almost alwaysthe substitute for buying your thingis doing nothing where hacking theirsolution in their daily life,the user I'm talking aboutand so I think if you'rea friend of a founderor a founder yourself,steer the conversation more likewait a minute I should not worry aboutbig companies because they're slowand usually bad but Ishould be worried aboutwhat's occupying mytarget user's attentiontoday because that's really what I'mcompeting against.
If you can answer that question,that's a lot more valuablethan a competitivematrix that like aconsulting firm would do.
- Actually frequently that one I'd sayto scout the large company as competitionunless like you're doing a search.
- (laughs)- Or unless you're doing marketplace foryou is good.
And it's eBay.
'Cause then you gotta understand,but discount otherwise.
Do think about other startups,right because sometimes like a startup manshould have a better approach onthe market than youand then that actuallyis a relevant variable.
It's not to say you should pattern yourstrategy on them,- Yeah.
- But you should be onthe consideration side.
So actually given that oneof the more funny things,given your presentationwhat would be your advicefor eBay now that you're years past,how would you reinvent?- Well you've got to keepin mind I've been gonelonger than I was ever there.
So I've been gone for almost 10 years,but I do of course watch it.
My advice is do more ofwhat they've been doing,which is this unbundling of PayPalwas I think the right thing.
I think it was the rightthing for shareholders,it was the right thing for employeesand the users to createmore of a competitivemarket for the ideas.
One of the nice thingsabout the combinationof lots of complementary assets is youcan do command and control economy inside,you can allocate capitalby the decision of the CEO.
And what happens over time is his or herjudgement is fallible and the marketis actually a much betterallocator of capitalthan one CEO or one investment committeeinside a large company.
I like the unbundling,I would encourage them to think aboutdoing more of it.
I certainly would also think aboutthe amount of people that work there.
It sure feels like a lot.
And I'm not advocating for layouts,although I guess maybe I just did.
(laughter)- You're advocating forasking the questions.
- Yes.
- Funny, I actually don'tknow your view on this.
Some of the leading edgeSilicon Valley peoplethink that you should organize internalcompanies based on markets versuscommand and control.
Do you have that point of view,if so why if not why not?- I do particularlywith respect to productdevelopment resources and I trieda handful of times where I've actually hadmanagement responsibility fora product process allocating softwareand hardware development time,which is the scarcest,much more scarce than capital.
Two particular projects tried to createa competitive market internal tothe firms so that there was vigorousand in some cases maybe even negativeproductivity but the competitionfor resources was very intense.
And the internal mechanisms for drawingthe line were driven by the economic valueof the idea rather than the whimof a particular senior executive.
- [Reid] But how didyou make the decisioninghappening because the decisioning,is it voting what wasthe proxy for the market?- Net present value,we would do--- But that's models, right?- It is so you have to have faith thatpeople are not padding the modelsyou have to have devil's advocatestear apart the models,it becomes quite a bit of overhead,but if people are held accountableto economic evaluation of their ideas,over time you can start to get a pattern,you can recognize a patternwhether people are goodpredictors of their owneconomic value of their ideasand then allocate the resourceson the basis of the highestNPV projects on the list.
The downside to this is of coursethat you feed the beast,the mothership business becausethe NPV the Net Present Valueof assigning more resources tothe highly profitablealready huge businessesis unbeatable really in an internal marketand that's why these big companies end upbeing slaves to their core businessand they can't beat you,they can't beat you oninnovation or speed.
- And would you recommend thata startup implement the marketplacemechanism in the beginning,yes or no?- Yes but with a different pricing model.
I don't think startupsshould have to go throughthe rigorous pricingand valuation analysisthat a large company should.
I think that ultimately the founder hasto be the guardian and the editor-in-chiefof that product roadmap and she or hehas to say here's where we're drawingthe line and here's why.
Everybody can submit an idea,everybody can make their caseand I'm gonna listen to everythingbut it's a benevolent dictatorshipon the product side.
- Interestingly I think Idisagree with you there.
I actually think the frequent thingthat characterizes the startup phase iswe are all casting ourlot in this one direction.
Actually in fact having somebody who isan autocrat or a smallnumber of people whoare autocrats in doing it.
For the efficiency of focus on doing thatis actually in fact akey part of the successbut I do think it'sinteresting that as you getto the higher levels inorder of a magnitude scale,there's a fork in the road that happensthere that's actually super interesting,who do you think is the most successfulcompany that implementsa marketplace internal mechanism for this?- Hmm.
I've been very impressed with how Airbnballocates resources forproduct development.
And I say that because I think their--I think, and this is anoutsider's point of viewI don't have any specialinsight knowledge,but the people I know who work thereoften talk about likethe things they need to invest in todayfor how the user experience needs to be9, 12, 24 months from now.
And so I think they havea perspective on managing the portfolioof investments it's pretty evolvedand very effective it seems.
I also think that they're veryeconomically driven I think they dothe math on theseinvestments that they make.
Now Airbnb is not what you might calla startup anymore,but it is an early stage company inthe spectrum of companiesthat decades longthat are big companiesthat are decades old.
I think smaller companies,there's a company thatI work with right nowcalled Signal Sciences which is 10 peoplein the app security marketand Signal Sciences has productabout as wide open afunnel as you can imagineon the front end of the processand the founders do sitat the center of thatand they listen into every ideano matter how far off, wacky, in linewith the strategyand then they cull itand then they have an honest conversationabout why we're buildingwhat we're building.
So it's kind of a hybrid of like wide openchaotic market on the front endbut benevolent dictatorshipwhen it comes to writing stuffon the roadmap.
- In that case probably benevolentsometimes benevolent sometimes notit all depends.
(laughing)So shifting.
There's kind of a mainstream view nowthat contrarian is being important.
So it's a very common or a consensusview that contrarian isn't important.
Do you think contrarianism is importantin a startup idea,if so how and if not kinda why not?Is it critical to be contrarian?- I don't think it's imperative,I do think it's a nicefeature of a startup.
I think it's certainly the place whereyou find value as an investorbecause of course it's the wild enthusiasmof conventional wisdom that chasesprices higher in those investment rounds.
I appreciate contrarian thinkingin a founder from that perspective.
I more enjoy the contrarian point of viewbecause it helps me understand howthe founder's brain worksand his or her road mapfrom technical insightto the product idea that they have.
If it's totally surprising,there's a lot of interesting stuffhappening in there.
I like it more from what it tells me aboutthe founder's thinking process.
- I actually think that to get a massivediscontinuous result in something,that usually has to be contrarianat least at the timeof founding and going.
Because otherwise we have a lotof different entrepreneurs,a lot of different efforts,the actual limiter factors,a lot of people competing forthe same capital talent, market space,customers, et cetera.
On the other hand I actually thinkpart of where the whole contrarian theorygoes too far is actually in factyou can have something that is maybespecifically contrarianlike take work day.
Which said okay, people didn't believethat going to the cloud was importantso it made that key contrarian decision,but actually that next generationof high quality HR software saidwell this is much easier to usemuch better it has the benefit oflike it made one key contrarian decisionbut everything else wasjust very good execution.
Because it's not contrarian to sayI have a much better UI.
Or it's not contrarian,you know like those kinds of things.
And so it's a new onset thatI think is actually important.
Okay shifting to some of the kind ofmore what you think of iskind of how we do startups questions.
How do you think people should thinkabout evaluating themselves as founders?Like when they think,am I a good founder or not,should I do this or not?Part of it is having the passionthat you mentioned before.
But part of it is also other attributes.
What are the things that you thinkpeople should considerin their self evaluation?- I think there's twoseparate answers to that.
Let me do one which is really simple,and one's a lot more complicated.
The simple one is that the stagesof life you'll go throughas a founder.
First you have to have an insight,a technical insight.
Second you have to turnthat insight into a product,and third you have to hopefully,God willing turn thatproduct into a business.
Those are about as different setsof pursuits with very littlein common with each other.
And so if you are energized by the ideaof coming up with a technical insightand then moving to productizationand then moving to thebusiness building phase,that journey will be satisfyingand exciting to you.
If you find yourself totally in lovewith the technical insightmanufacturing process,that is a real problem.
And then you end uphaving science projects,not companies.
If you find yourself endlesslyprototyping and tinkering with the productwithout regard to the business economics,then that's a warning flag as well.
I think you have to be energized,in today's market where the expectationis that if you're onto something,you're not just moving from these stages,you are screaming across those stages.
You have to be willingin the earliest daysto see yourself asokay we're in technical insight mode,in a month we're gonna be productizing,we're gonna be worried about businesseconomics shortly thereafter.
- [Reid] And after we getto the other nuances of thisI'll actually add a few things but how doyou find co-founders,how should you select co-founders?- The advice I normally give peopleis take inventory of your own brain.
There's a video on my website onHarrisonmetal.com called the CognitiveDistortions of Founders.
And this is an inventory of the fivemost common wacky ways of seeingthe world that I'veobserved across thousandsof founders that I've talked to overthe last decade.
The founders if they have an idea,let's say I'll pick on one which isa black and white thinker.
Somebody who's very judgmentalabout people and products,they form very quick opinionsand they are very strongly held.
The black or white thinker often timesneeds to be paired or shock absorbedby somebody who can point tothe gray or the nuance or sayI like this thread of it but what aboutthis idea over hereso that the other people in the team don'tget shut down by the visionaryblack and white thinker.
So I think of it like pairingyour deadly risk withgreat shock absorbers.
And just acknowledging that you've gotdeadly risks that are the flip sideof your great strengths is a huge stepin the right directionand that pairing the co-foundersis probably the most powerful wayto shock absorb.
And ideally you're evenshock absorbing each other.
- And actually since you mentioned thatone of our students'questions and apologiesif I get the nameexactly right or wrong onthe pronunciation Nihit Desai askedas an investor what kindsof cognitive resourcesdo any of you look forin founders and how?- Well the ones that I really zoom in onis first a sense ofpersonal exceptionalisma sense about themselves that,you know some countrieshave this about themselves,this is a sense that you're not destinedfor an average outcome in life,that you're somehow operating outsidethe boundaries normal for your peer group.
That sense of personal exceptionalismcomes in very handy when you'refounding a company.
The black and white thinking oneis a real example,I think that's an important skill.
For me it proxies for thespeed of decision making,I don't actually likeblack and white thinkingbecause the error rate can be high,but I do like the speed part of it,and speed is almost allyou have in those days.
Another one is very relatedto Joseph Schumpeterwho we talked about earlier,a Schumpetering mindset which isno matter the pain the creative partof Creative Destruction is what gets me upin the morning so I am so excitedabout building the new thing that I willput myself and others throughthe torture of the destruction.
There are a couple others in that list.
Let's see...
- [Reid] Go to the website.
- Okay yeah go to the website.
- And we'll post it.
- Okay.
- So one of the things Iwould add to what you saidis you've got to think about in additionto the whole passion productkind of company as and are.
You have to think a little bit about,do we have the key foundational skill setsthat can actually tackle this market?It's anything from canwe build the productto can we go to market,and how do we acquire those?The ones that are in the founding teamhave to be without this we shouldn'teven try this product.
Obviously there will be a lot of skillsthat you acquire through hiringand we'll get to that in a second.
So you have to think about thatas I think as kind of a cross check.
And then I actually think that partof what you have to think about ispart of the role offounders different frompeople you're hiring is being generalists.
Tackling any problemthat kind of comes alongand that flexibility because there's justa laundry list of unexpected pivots,you know and challenges that you'renot anticipating that one or moreof the initial team is gonna have to gojump on so one of the things that we thinkstarts very heavily inthis phase is generalist.
And you get to more hiring a specialistas your scale.
Those are the kind of things to thinkabout adding to this.
- [Student] ActuallyMichael was saying earlierabout you go from technology or productto modernization youreally love technology,too bad you can't do it.
It's one of the things about good patternsis you're drawn to followeverybody else on your team.
You have to look unique because nobodyelse will do that.
- Exactly.
So let's talk also aboutthe first few hires.
Like how do you hire well,you've got ideally ideal teams oftwo or three sometimes it's solosometimes it's five,two or three is usuallythe ideal founding team.
Now you make your first three hiresyour first five hires.
How do you advise the very startupsyou work with what kind of hiring processto run what to do what not to do?- Well I get very worried when I seepeople come with a shopping list.
And they're saying okay,I need 32 ounces of front end developer,and I need a pound of IOS backend.
It just doesn't work that wayand I think the earlystage should be aboutsurrounding yourself with peoplewho share your passion but who alsowill pick up and do anything.
And of course there'sa checklist of thingsthey have to be able to do,but I think of it like I look back atthe successful early hiring experiencesversus the unsuccessful ones,the shopping listers almost alwaysa red flag on there'ssomething gonna be wrong here.
And the most successful hires I thinkin the early days come from your networkor one degree separated from your network.
And that's because the passion has beentransmitted in an organic way,not through a recruiteror a third party or an ad.
I think that has its place,but it's much later in the cycle.
Those first few I think you probablyalready know them.
- [Reid] Yeah and Iactually agree with that.
Not just because the signal,but also because of a bunchof other characteristics likeare they gonna go throughthe valley of shadows with youcause you're almost always there.
Are they actually in fact committed towe're gonna get this ship to port?Are they for example things that arevery difficult to measure,even in reference checkingwhich is obviously critically important.
I always prefer reference checking tointerviewing if I had to pick one.
But questions like for example,how much in general learners are there,how much generalists are there,how much can they pick up something newthat you don't expect?You get all that muchmore through your network.
- I also think that these conversationshave to be focused on tell me abouta time when you fill in the blank.
Tell me about a time when you facedlike a horrible disappointment,tell me about a time you consideryour greatest victory.
Tell me about a time when you realizedyou were different.
You know go back and talk to peopleabout their lives.
People repeat the same strengthsand weaknesses over and over againand all you have to dois ask for a few storiesand you'll get a very good view intowho they actually are.
- Like solving key problems.
- Solving key problem,what did you decide todo with your free time,when you had your summers to yourselfor when you had an open spacein your course calendar,or you had three months to go dowhatever you wanted between gigs,what did you do whenyou had perfect freedom?- The students are probably havinga little bit of deja vu,some questions like this wereon our application process.
- Oh is that right good, good, good.
- And there's a reason for that,by the way which you were revealing.
So now you've got your founders together,you may have hired afew people you're going.
What are the firstthings that you focus on?- Well it goes back to that McCallum list,I mean that is,I walk around with that thing.
It comes up every single day for mewith founders as you know,who's working on what,is that the most important stuff?Do they have the authorityto keep moving aheador are they blocked by something?How do we know how it'sgoing along the way?You'd be amazed how many ten personcompanies get surprisedat the end of a releaseor a roll out or a month,they'll be like oh well that didn't work.
Well how can that be,we're sitting right herehow can we you know.
So those McCallum questionsthat he was reallytrying to say,look running the 50 mile road is a joyand easy compared to thisnightmare that I'm in.
Here's the things that Iknow are the fundamentalduties of the leader.
And that's I think just as true todayin startups as it was for McCallum.
- [Reid] Is there a question you wouldadd to McCallum's list if you wereto have a seventh?- For early stageventures I probably wouldgo back to the questionabout financial viability.
Are we sure that we'rebuilding a business?And unfortunately in thecurrent funding environment,many things are beingbacked with venture capitalthat are not in factgoing to be businesses.
They're either public goods,science projects or hobbies.
But they're not businesses and so I thinkthat's a discipline that I wouldadd to the McCallum list.
- [Reid] Hobbies is a very gentle word.
What is the importance and when of havinga go to market and distribution strategy?- I think that you have tohave a hypothesis of it.
And I know that it's veryunfashionable to havethe idea of a full detailedplan on founding dayis not what's going to happen.
But I do like to know how the foundersthink about that because it helpsme understand how their brain works.
So I think of it likean opinionated personwho has the guts to found a companyought to have some hypothesis abouthow it might go to market.
- [Reid] Would your decision to investever gate on that?- Yes because if it doesn't exist,it's a laziness of mindand a red flag.
Now I think you have to distinguishis there a prototypeanswer to that questionversus how close to awesome is thatprototype answer?It doesn't need to be awesome becausewe're gonna have many, many cyclesto figure that out.
But there has to be a prototype.
You can't convince astranger to give you money.
You shouldn't be ableto convince a strangerto give you money if you haven't said,and here by the way ishow we will go to market.
You could be completely wrongbut you can't withholdthat view into your brain.
It's like saying I don'thave a prototype yetof the actual software,you'd never say that.
- So I'm going to give you a brief listof things that are my suggestionsbut you can mod them and comment.
I want you to actually specificallycomment on them.
What are the things you can ignore?What are the things yougo at the early stagedon't pay any attention to this,or do minimally or do intensively?A board of directors, hiring executives,knowledge about advertising campaigns,planning your brand, applying for scalein customer service,detailed analytic dashboards.
- These are all on the list of thingsyou can safely ignore.
- [Reid] Mostly.
Not always there's always specifics.
- I would say every founder should havehis or her own list ofthings they plan to ignore.
And they should alsoknow that if I'm goingto ignore board of directors,I need to have a governance approach,I need to make sure that somebodyis looking at this who isn't just me.
Who can critique the strategyit might be an advisor it might bea trusted colleague itmight be a cofounderwho has the--- [Reid] We're onlytalking about 5-15 peoplekind of in the company this is this phase.
- Well and the reasonI'm zooming in on boardis because most of the companies I fundare that size and I always put a board onand I'm always on it.
So I think they serve a really goodand valuable functionand if you're gonna dowithout one of thesethings you should just havea hypothesis or a shock absorber in itsplace to do that function.
One of the things I wish was on your list,and maybe it is furtherdown is freakin' PR.
And the idea that founders are brandsand that companies needto have high profileand be written about by whomever is a lie.
It's a complete and total lie.
And it's manufactured by the peoplewho sell ads for page views to convinceyou that you need to talk to them.
And it's a complete and total lie.
You may decide for your own reasonsto go do PR for your company,but it doesn't actuallychange the outcome.
In fact many times it can actually tipthe outcome in the wrong direction,and recruiting is aperfect example of this.
If you are deciding to doPR because of recruiting,the people you'll attractare the wrong people.
Because most of your life as a companywill be spent not being written about ina flattering way.
And so if that's whatthey need to be motivated,then they're going tobe very disappointed.
- By the way as a pointer here,in the first class wementioned that one ofthe things you'll seeis we go through eachof these stages between these very smartpeople doing this.
If some things will bereiterated they're kindof surprising and those are the thingsto actually pay attention to,and some things we'll obviously disagreeand that's fine.
This was one of the pointsthat Sam was making,Sam Altman was makingthem in the last class.
That actually in factis a reiteration point.
And that was part ofthe reason that I'd kindof point out what thepatterns of surprisingsimilarity would be.
On the board of directors,what I more mean is actually in factif you find a financial partner,co-investor you shouldactually get someonewho is maximally adding value.
The normal position is for themto partner with you by board of directorsso I actually agree withyou just to be clear there.
However sometimes I see a founders way,okay how do I build out my board?Like how do I haveindependence now et cetera.
At the 5-15 people...
- No.
- [Student] If it wasn'tthe other way aroundwhy do you need a board of 5-15just build products...
maybe you could talk a little bit moreabout what you mean (indistinct)- I think it's the healthy accountabilityto the market.
Which you have to remember,if you've got no customersand you've got no product,but you've got a pile of moneyprovided by those awesome institutionsit's a citizenship dutyto actually sit downand say here's where we're gonna spend it,here's how long it's gonna last us.
Is there anything we should be doingdifferently in your opinion?You can get that a lot of ways,I like it with a board just becauseI think it gives people in the seed stageit gives them a dressrehearsal of what it'sgonna be like when they are dealing withSand Hill Road people.
- I don't really like to be identifiedas a Sand Hill roadperson but that's okay.
- You know what I mean,you know what I mean.
(laughter)- [Student] Reid's aloser nobody's denying it.
- Yes.
- It's fine.
- I live in denial.
- You get to name yourself Reid.
- I try.
(laughter)- Yeah so I think of itlike a dress rehearsalfor varsity level company management.
- [Reid] Well since we'reon this part of financing,what recommendation do you givejust founding teams,the founders, the first couple peoplein terms of how to think about financing?What are the key dos and don'ts?And obviously the backdrop iseveryone's reflex is simply go forthe highest valuation and the highestamount of money because it lookslike a scorecard.
- Well it's even worse that that becausethe conventionalism today sayspunt totally on valuation.
And use convertible debt,or even worse something calleda simple agreement for future equitywhich God knows what that is.
(laughter)You know I think--- [Reid] Schumpeterprobably wouldn't have--- No listen nobody came to this countrybecause they wanted to have greatconvertible debt terms.
People thrive in this environmentbecause they want ownership,they want to add value to their ownershipand then they want to sell their ownershiplater for more.
And along the way they're gonna createhopefully a fortune that will dogood things for the world.
We kind of can't help ourselveswhen we make a fortune.
As a species we do goodthings with the money.
Even the worst people you can imagine,when they drop dead that money is goingto go to really good use.
I think this is an ownership economy,and I'd like to be partof an ownership economy.
I encourage founders,treat yourself to real shareholders.
Real shareholders.
People who rise and sink with you.
People who do not have a particularlyspecial downside protection.
People who do not have a lender's claimon your assets.
This is all nonsense created bythe legal professionand some I don't evenknow what to call them,hucksters who want to explodethe size of the venture capital business.
- [Reid] Corporate capital from yourearlier description.
- Something.
It's a terrible disserviceto teach foundersthat they don't deserve shareholderswho rise and fall with them,who don't sink and swim with them.
Who aren't tied to the mast with them.
And that unfortunately is,you do not get that when you sellconvertible debt or when you havehighly distributed financings from peoplewho for you it's like a generous tipthat they gave you,it's not even really skin in the game.
So treat yourself to shareholdershave the hard conversationabout valuation.
It's perfectly okay todisagree with somebodyabout the valuation of your company.
By the way the math to do evaluationon an early stagecompany is really simple.
How big a check do you want to write,divided by what ownership percentagedo you want to have.
If you can do that,and I know you all canbecause I could do it in fifth grade,you can value a company.
That's all it is.
So ignore the advice you're gettingfrom lawyers or whomeverto do convertible debt with no valuation.
It's a terrible poison inour industry right now.
- [Student] Do you thinkthe same thing aboutconvertible notes with caps?- Yes even worse.
They're disguised as...
Lipstick on a pig is that the right thing?- [Reid] That is an idiom.
It's still not ownership,and by the way that cap is neverthe today value of the companyso what you're asking the investor to do,and you would never do thisbecause you're smart,you're in the front row of this class.
(laughter)You would never take the deal where I saidokay I'm gonna ask you to help meon a bunch of stuff and then I'm goingto give you shares valued at the priceafter you're done helping me.
That's a terrible deal.
Why should you pay for valuethat you helped create?Why should you not benefit from the upsidethat you get from taking that venture riskat the beginning of the venture?You should get a price that reflectsthe value today,not the hypothetical value 12 monthsdown the road.
Does that make sense?No?- And actually I will take these questionsin a second because thisis an important issue,the key way to look at this isif you are actuallyselecting a good partnerin building this business,you want someone who is motivatedby trying to magnify the valueof your business as much as possible.
You want to give them actually a stakeat where your valuation isand then you come to an agreementthat actually is a good processit's one of the fewthings in entrepreneurshipwith zero sum it's what percentage.
Because it's a zero sum negotiation.
But the way you navigate that zero sumconversation is actuallyin fact very helpfulfor understanding how good partnersyou're gonna be in the future.
It's a good test on both sides,because it's a difficultthing to navigate.
But once you navigate that,you've solved that problemand then you've given your partneran incentive.
The how do you grow the businessas much as possible.
And so that's reason why uncappedconvertible debts are a terrible idea.
Right like just horrible.
And almost never do them,personally other than likeminimum checks that say sure fine,it doesn't really mean anything.
But I almost never do them.
Cap is still a problem because you shoulddo exactly what Michael is talking about.
Sometimes cap is a hack that you know,that is more acceptable for that reason.
Now we have two questions.
One was here.
- [Student] So as a founder if you'retrying to raise money and you have optionsto take money from like in the form ofa convertible note witha cap or without a cap,I think part of my understandingof your criticism isit seems like an unfairdeal on the financier's side.
Because you're helping grow valuationof a company withoutgetting a piece of that.
But as a founder if you're raisingin competitive fundraising like right nowwhere it's much easier toraise money than historically,if you still think thatyou're gonna be gettinglike the valuablebenefits of a partnershipand because of the competitive natureof the seed right now,some are willing to give you likea capped convertible notethat inflates your valuation.
How much of that is important versusworking with a partner who will providelike this beyond.
And obviously from your perspectiveas people who are providing.
- We're teachers in this context,not venture capitalists.
- Well and the other thing we areis we vote with our dollars right?And so if an investoris willing to do thatdeal that you said,a capped convertible noteand she or he is sayingI will help you just the same as I wouldwith straight up equity.
You have to just askyourself if you believe it.
I'd say about 60% of the meetings I haveon a weekly basis with foundersare people I don't even have a businessrelationship with,they're just people who say like,hey can we talk because I need help?The number of those founders who areshowing me polluted cap tableswith useless investors who do nothing,who promise the world who saidmy rolodex is your rolodex,if you're in trouble call me.
The phone's ringing,shit's hitting the fannobody's picking up.
That doesn't happen.
That just doesn't happen when somebodyis going to lose a lot of moneyand a lot of ownership in the business.
It just doesn't.
I think that you have to ask yourselfif the idea of equity was inventedafter thousands of years of peopletrading with each otherand learning how the humanoperating system works.
And there's a reason why some peoplelike to be owners.
It's so they can help and they can makeit worth more money,not because they're altruistic,but because they're highly motivatedto put points on the board financially.
And so to ask that,to believe that the human operating systemisn't what we for thousands of yearsit seems like it is,is really a stretch.
And I'm seeing lots offounders who are just,they're looking at their list of 30-40investors each of whom have put$25,000 or $50,000 or $100,000 inand they just can't get any helpbecause it was a lie from the beginning.
- Two amplifications I would do is one isat every single financing we didin LinkedIn we did not actually takethe maximum value.
We actually in fact made choices basedon who we were partnering within terms of the offer.
Because it was very much on partner.
And then the second thing is,I personally and a bunch of investorshave passed on deals because the cap tableis too screwed up.
Because that means it's likelyto screw up the company on the roadbecause we're investing ata five to ten year horizon,so we're looking at patternsthat actually in factwill trip you up andthat's actually in facta serious problem.
So on this topic,there was another question back here?- [Student] So there's some lawyers thatare clear value.
- Yes.
- [Student] And you'velearned any capital.
So you should reference this for sure.
- [Student] (unclear speaking)I guess the idea of thesafe sheet has reallystarted to bring these issues up again.
Other sheet that people didn't use are theFenwick Series C Docs.
It's more of the middle load.
Would you advocate for that?- That's exclusively whatI use in my business.
Exclusively.
- Just in case it didn'tget on the microphoneit's the Fenwick Series- Yeah seriesc.com isa set of open source,it's also on GitHub.
Series of open source equity financingdocuments created by Ted Wangat Fenwick and West.
And it's the only template I use.
- [Student] Jason Batemanput that on GitHub.
Who's the partner when you guyswere starting out,who's the firm that picked up thephone the most?- Good question.
- What do you mean by that?- [Student] I'm not sureshit ever hit the fan,but when it did who picked up your phone?- So I did my series A with Mark Kvammewho was then at Sequoiaand series B with David Zee who'sat Graylock.
And I put a number of angels intothe series A as well because part ofthe thing was a network distributionand basically nobody gotinto that round at allunless they were actually in fact active.
Either one.
And all of the top tier funds,all of them have an activeparticipation model.
There isn't a top tier fund that doesn'thave an active participation modelbecause that's the thing that actuallyhelps build truly great companies.
For example one of our mutual friendsis a guy named Josh Kopelmanat First Round Capital,he was an angel investor at LinkedInand he helped.
But that was beforeactually I think he had doneFirst Round Capital.
And those are the kind of things.
But that's actually when you're actuallyasking for like you should reference checkas John says but when you're actuallyasking people to participate,you should have explicit conversationabout what this alliance looks like.
Like what is the thingthat we are doing togetherand what should I expectand how should it be.
And the person should be straight upand you should call them if they'renot holding to what they agreed to.
Is there another question back here?- [Student] Yeah I wanna understand betterwhy you like safe documents comparedto the C documents they get rid ofthe convertible thatwhich I think is greatto get rid of that.
- So more elaboration onwhat the safe documents are.
- Well I'm deeply suspicious of anythingthat's acronym is designedto make you trust it.
(laughter)The Patriot Act comes to my mind.
I also don't know whatproblem it's solving.
I'm watching a very well-developedadvanced system in capitalismwhere I give you money in exchangefor a small piece ofownership in your company.
It's not a complicated idea,the math behind it is totally simple.
- [Student] Safe works the same way,I'm talking about a cap save of course.
- But I'm not a shareholder.
- [Student] (unclear response)- Heck yeah I have those freakin'certificates framed behind my desk.
The ownership point,look at the differencebetween renters and ownersand how they treat their homes.
Look at the differencebetween rent controlledsituations and ownership societies.
Ownership mechanisms ensurethe best long term custodianshipof those assets.
And we may not like some of the complexitythat goes with that like the difficultconversation around well how muchare you worth today?(student speaking in background)Oh I'm not yelling at you.
Yeah yeah yeah yeah.
But you know what I'm saying isit's just a choice.
- [Student] But also the safes don'tfix the price safes workjust like (inaudible)- Yeah well I don't know,what is that then?- [Reid] Very lastquestion for the session.
- [Student] So you mentioned that it's notin an customer's best interest to doa highly distributed dealand also that you want to have ownership,a stake that gives you ownership.
From the investor's standpoint what isthe ideal situation (unclear).
- Well I was gonna saythat's a Reid question.
- So I think your ideal circumstance isyou'll actually end upwith two components.
One component is a lead investorwho is literally getting into the foxholewith you who is gonna be with you through,cause you're gonna have difficult times,especially from this you know,essentially the family's side startup.
You'll have multiple times looking forwardin the future where you're likewhy did we ever thinkthis was a good idea,why did we ever think this wasgonna succeed?You want someone who's gonnawork through those problems with you.
And your lead is really important.
The lead is also important as havinga good partnership with you,being able to help you navigate someof the challenges,being able to help you do your next roundof financing because that's usuallythe key is the lead is the personwho's gonna help do that.
And you have to thinkabout not just the upsidecircumstances but the down circumstances.
You have to think I might be hitting itout of the park,I might be doing okayand I might be in troubleand I want a good partner in allof these circumstances.
They might be particularly goodat one of thembut they'll be good at all of them.
Then the question is what's the percentagethat motivates them?Most funds that's 20-30%there are circumstanceswhere they can tradebelow that but those circumstancesusually are like I'd come and my product'salready launched I'vegot massive traction,okay I can be motivated a lower percentagebecause I know I'm alreadyat a higher risk thing.
I've got an idea,it's the back of a napkin it's likelook if I'm gonna put thework into this with youand I'm gonna allocate the timeand try to make it happen,what's the appropriate percentage?And usually a way of looking at that iskind of it's like a financial cofounderto your percentage.
It's like I'm partneringwith you doing this.
But then you also want to get some peoplein the network in terms ofwho are key other like angel investors,key people who can helpwith this business,bring customers, bring talent,bring advice, solve key problems.
It's a data business,do you have a great data personwho might be an angel investorwho could help with that.
And it's specific to the business.
And your ideal configurationis that lead plus a select few of highlyvaluable people that you can essentiallypartner with and that'syour ideal circumstance.
So there were a set of very good questionsin the LinkedIn group,we will give some props to you,we actually noticed themI actually have them all printed up here.
And so thank you for them.
But I actually thought the financingthing is so critical during the family onethat I actually in factit was worth actuallygoing in depth on thatand that's part of thereason I diverted that.
- And if it's helpful I'm happy tomaybe write up some of the answersto the other questions.
- Yeah I'll send them to you.
- And so with this,thank Michael for joining us.
(applause)- Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you so much.
