WEBVTTKind: captionsLanguage: en- [John] Alright, so hi.
So we're gonna only do anhour today 'cause our guestneeds to jet, and so do I.
So what I thought we'd do isfor a few minutes we wouldtalk about a couple of observations,and then we'd have Jenifercome up and talk aboutCode for America, whichI will probably call CFAfor the rest of the time.
And then we'll do questions and stuff.
So some of the comments,it was interesting,some of the feedback we gotafter, kind of along the way,was that people wantedmore and more specificsand stories and specific situations.
And so we tried hard on Tuesday to doa lot of that with Mozilla, I think.
What you'll find is thatas we moved from investorsto operators, operatorspretty much talk aboutwhat's on their mind all thetime, and operators are inthe guts and in the details all the time.
And so what I think you'llfind now in Alan's commentas he was headed to the airport is thateverybody came up tohim to talk to him aboutcommunity being the key to growth.
And so he called me, and wetalked, and his big concern was,oh my god, are they over-generalizing?You just heard an hour about community.
What do we do, like the community is notthe only way to grow.
And so his point of viewwas, we need to help talk...
We're gonna kinda keep comingback to lightweight framers,which is here's kindahow to think about it.
Here's the specfics.
Here's kinda how to think about it.
Here's the specifics.
It's a funny class.
We've been trying to sort ofthread the needle a little bitbetween being like here's howwe think about the structuresand the abstractions, andhere's how we operate.
But then here's the details,and we try to curate avery, very thoughtful set of panelists.
So hopefully that makes sense.
Does anybody have questionsbefore we get startedtalking about Code for America?I guess the other thing Iwould say is like having saidbe careful about over-generalizing,this is a funny weekbecause this is the only weekwe've got any non-profits,and both days we're doingnon-profits and reallyvery, very communityoriented organizations.
So Mozilla on Tuesday,Code for America today.
And so then that'll be theend of the non-profits,so the rest will be forprofits, and Eric (mumbling)was a good example of that.
All they do is make money at this point.
So anyway, we'll just get started.
I'm very happy to haveJennifer Pahlka here.
So one disclosure, I'm onJen's Board, and have beenon the Board for a couple to three years.
Jennifer's one of myheroes because she looked,well I'm gonna let her talkabout it, but she looked atwhat needed doing a few years back.
And she said, you know,government's not veryof the people, for the people anymore.
And so she took herentrepreneurial background and saidI'm gonna change that.
It came in the context ofstarting this non-profit calledCode for America, whichI'll let her talk about.
And then I think she's changed the world.
And for last year, she tooka year off, the year offfrom her start up to go takea job in the White Houseto be Deputy CTO for the President.
So we'll talk about what it'slike to leave your start up,what it's like to come back.
And now as she's thinkingmore and more abouthow does she scale impact,how does she make thisa durable, lasting organization,the different types ofconsiderations she hasfrom when she was startingthe organization and gettingit ramped now to what it isto make it durable.
So welcome, Jen, to the class.
- [Jennifer] Thank you.
(applause)- [John] So here, have a seat.
- [Jennifer] OK, hi.
- [John] So what I'm gonnaask Jen to do first iscan you just talk aboutwhat Code for America is?- [Jennifer] Sure.
Well, we started, and therewas an answer earlier aboutTeach for America, westarted as sort of theTeach for America for coders,but working in government.
So it was a service yearprogram for sort of mid-careertechnology and designprofessionals to comework in government.
- [John] What's a service year program?What does that mean?- Oh, this is a Stanford class.
People don't know what aservice year program is?- [John] I don't know.
- OK, so it's a year basicallythat folks take off fromtheir regular careers anddo something that doesn'tpay very well but has verymeaningful, and they give back.
So we started out bydoing this with 20 fellowsin our first year inthree city governments.
We worked for Seattle andBoston and Philadelphia.
And it's kind of grown fromthere into essentially a programwhere we help governmentstake an iterative,data driven and user centeredapproach to problems.
So we co-develop applicationswith them, help them get anunderstanding of how youwould do that in a way that'svery different from howgovernment does it normally,and try to build on all ofthe outcomes that happenwhen you're able to do somethinglike that successfully.
- [John] And you mean mostlynot the federal government,mostly cities.
- We work with local governments because,as you said earlier, we'resort of very much aboutfor the people, by thepeople, and if you think aboutwhat government does, localgovernment is actuallydoing a lot of the service delivery.
We do increasingly work withstates, and we work withthe federal government a number of ways,but it's usually to helpmake change that has tocascade down from the federalgovernment to the statesto counties and cities, andwe're working at that servicedelivery point that happenswith cities and counties.
- [John] Alright, so we'llhave to bridge some of thelanguage 'cause it's notvery start up languagelike service delivery, and thatjust means delivering thingsto governments or services.
- Yeah, exactly, products.
- Products, exactly.
That's a good word.
So tell me about the first year.
So you had this idea, we'regonna start this thing,and you started what month?Like what part of the year did you start?- Well, I kinda quit myjob at the end of 2009.
- [John] Your job doing?- I was running the Web 2.0 events.
That was like a thing.
- [John] That was a thing, Web 2.0, yeah.
- Web 2.0, it was on thecover of Time Magazine.
- [John] That was alsoa thing, Time Magazine.
(laughter)- Touché.
- [John] Magazines used to exist.
- I was always into thesort of business-to-businesstech media stuff, and had this idea.
So I was sort of doing itpart time until I couldwrap up my last project,and started at sort ofthe beginning of 2010 by openinga call for cities to apply.
So it was sort of smoke andmirrors, and we didn't reallyhave anything, but wewere building something,and we had an offering thatcities could apply to bepart of our program.
And we spent that yeargetting our city partners,getting the funding thatwe'd need to actually do it,which was a good thing we gotit 'cause I don't know whatwe would have done if we hadn't.
- [John] So the first thingyou did was go find customers.
- First thing we did wasfind customers, yeah.
- What cities want a littlebit of Silicon Valley magic.
- Right.
And you know, it's kindof amazing I think,we were able to put upa decent looking websitevery quickly, and it's amazinghow that makes it look likeyou have something.
- [John] That's a goodlesson, like back when the webmattered I guess.
- Yeah.
- [John] Now you have an app, I guess.
- Yeah, so I mean, you knowI think people in localgovernment could go inand look at this thing,and go, oh, that's a thing.
They have a nice website.
And so we got, yeah, wewent and got customers,and then we went and gotour teams, our fellows,recruiting technologydesign professionals.
But kind of that wholeyear felt a little bit likeyou're laying down the tracksas the train is reachingthe part where the tracks need to be,with the funding comingin and staff coming insort of just in time for usto launch the beginning ofthe first fellowship yearstarting in the beginning of 2011.
- And you said it was 20fellows the first year?- Um hmm.
- [John] This is I think ayear before I got involved.
And so 20 fellows in threecities, and how did you getanyone to put their handup and wanna do that?What people did you try torecruit, and what did they want?- We definitely were verylucky, and I think justthe way you do it, wemade it a competition.
And we have actually used this since then.
You're not trying to sell them something,you're giving them an award.
So we said cities will apply,and we will pick the onesthat we wanna work with.
That was also a bit of smoke and mirrors,but it worked out fine.
So you know, the first folksthat we found were these guysin the city of Bostonwho ran an organizationI've never heard of before,but it's now somewhat commonin city governments.
In fact, there's one in Austin,called the Mayor's Officeof New Urban Mechanics.
So these guys had alreadybeen creating a spacefor innovation, andreally a space for risk,within local government in Boston.
And what they had said to folks is,we are the risk aggregator.
We're gonna do crazyprojects that don't normallyhappen in government, and if they work,and we're partnering with departments,and if they work, you and thedepartment get all the credit.
And if it fails, we'll take all the blame.
And they had this sort ofability, they had this sort ofmandate from the mayorto be able to do that,who was a very beloved mayor and had veryhigh risk tolerance.
So folks like that were kindof natural first customers.
Mayor Nutter in Philadelphiaalso just, you know,sort of fire in his bellyand a lot of executivesupport for it.
So they were just the folksI think who could standthe risk of doing something new.
But we made a lot of mistakes that year.
And in fact, we initially had four cities.
I don't know if you remember this.
- [John] I did not.
- We were gonna beworking with the Districtof Columbia as well, andwe had a great change agentpartner there as well.
And right after we signed the contract,Mayor Fenty lost theelection, and Gray came in,and he fired all of ourfellows at lunch timeon their first day of work.
- [John] (laughs) Whenthey were in D.C. already?- Um hmm.
- [John] Yeah, that's cool.
- They made it from breakfast to lunch,and they were escorted out by security.
- [John] And obviously it'sgood to hear these stories'cause there are so manycommonalities with what we heardin the first couple of weeksabout sort of faking ituntil you get your firstcustomer, faking it until youget recruiting, youknow, finding a kind of,we haven't talked about this,but finding a very specialclass of customer, like this risk agent.
- Yeah.
- That's kind of importantbecause you almost don't wantyour mainstream customers'cause they're not ready forall the mistakes.
- Yep.
- So that's interesting.
So it's not the scalingcustomers, but it's theearly customers.
Do you have a question, Chris?- [Chris] Yeah, so the government's paidto fire these people.
- Um hmm, they did.
Yeah, we had some, and itremains today that we havea mix of funding fromphilanthropy and fromgovernments themselves.
- Yeah, one of the thingsthat comes up is aroundfunding models for non-profits,and you have some mix ofearned revenue, sort ofjust actual business modelgovernment, and so corporation giving,and then individual giving usually.
So ideally, like Mozilla youget to this sort of nirvanawhen it's all earned revenue,and you don't have to go raise.
But in the early stagesit's a little bit likeraising from VCs, whichis you get partnerswho are thought partners,and so think we've been luckythought partners (mumbling) and Knight andother places as well.
Do you have a question?- [Voiceover] Yeah, how did you decide howto price your packages?- So the question is howdid you decide how toprice your packages?- Honestly, what we didis we took the amount thatwe were gonna pay fellows andadded a little bit to that,and threw it over the wall.
And we didn't get the fullprice from all of our partners.
I think Philly and Bostonpaid us what we asked,and Seattle sort of paidus what they felt like,and we took it.
And then it all went, thatone didn't work out well.
- We'll talk aboutproductization as we go, too,and then please feelfree to ask questions.
I think that's a commonality,too, which is sometimesyou try to say, wellwe're gonna base price onwhat it costs us,plus a little bit sowe have enough cushion.
Sometimes you say, well,why don't we just ask 'emfor this much?It almost always seemscrazy to the start up,and depending on theorganization sometimesit doesn't sound like much at all.
So sometimes you ask, andif they say yes too quickly,you know you've underpriced it,which is usually what happens.
OK, so good.
So how did you know, when'sthe first time you felt likeyou had a product market fit for CFA?When did it feel like youreally had a match betweenwhat you were offeringand what somebody wanted?- I think, and this isgonna get into sort of whatour product really is, butthe first time I kind ofrealized we were ontosomething was after one of thefellows in Boston stoodup an application calledDiscover BPS.
And the background for thisis that they were working onactually other apps inBoston, and there was sort ofa larger team there than weneeded because the D.C. thinghad cratered, so we justmoved those fellows overto work on Boston.
- [John] Well, let's just talk about theprocess a little bit.
So the fellows, they'regroups of four or five people.
- Now we just do prettymuch exclusively three,and occasionally four.
- [John] And it's usually auser interface type personand a developer or two.
- Yep, yeah.
What we say is amongst thosethree people you've gotta haveall the skills to do a basic web app.
You gotta be able to stand something up.
- So this is the product, right?This is one of the products.
- This is one of the products, right.
So I mean, the softwareproduct itself in this casewas very simple.
It was a website that you would go on,and you would type in, ifyou were a parent in Boston,you could go on there, youcould type in your address,the age of your kid andwhether you had any other kidsin a Boston public school,and it would tell you whichpublic schools your kidswere allowed to attend.
But the background of thisis that they had recentlychanged the rules aboutwhich public schoolsyou would be assigned to.
And they did it for a greatreason, which is they wantedmore kids to be walking to school.
But the way they conveyedthis was to printa 28-page brochure in six point type,and mail it out to everybody.
And that doesn't tell you whichschool your kids can go to.
And there was this humancry amongst parents.
There were, obviously, video I remember onthe BostonGlobe.com of a parent crying,so frustrated that schoolselection time was coming up,and there was really noreasonable way to figure outwhich school your kids could go to.
And so one of our fellows, JoeMahoney, did this full timeand grabbed a developer half time.
And I think we calculatedit was about eight weeks,yeah, eight to ten weeksbetween the time the mayorasked him to do this andthe time he stood up aworking prototype.
It evolved after that.
But it was when NigelJacobs, who was our sponsorand is also now on our Board,who's our partner in Bostoncame to us, and he said,"You realize that if this had"gone through regular government channels,"it would have taken twoyears and cost at least"two million dollars to do this?"And I thought, OK, thisis something valuable.
And I don't think we evenrealized that when westarted doing this.
So then you see how theproduct is not just somethingthat the parents can use.
The product is the way thateverybody around that goes,why does that need totake two million dollarsand two years?- [John] Right, so we had alittle bit of a group of ushad dinner on Tuesday, andJen was going to articulatewhat the real product is,'cause it's easy I thinkwhen you're kinda wanderingaround trying to figure outwhat's happening, you cansay, well, here's the thingwe make, that's the product.
Or here's a thing.
And we were talking aboutthis, and trying to get peopleto say, well, if the outcomeyou're trying to get tois people asking why, whycan't it be different,that's an important and powerful outcome.
And trying to figure out howto get to there is kind of key.
And it kind of resonatedwith me from Mozilla'cause like one way to thinkabout Mozilla's productwas Firefox web browser, butanother way to think about itis that we were trying toput pressure under the systemto try to force Appleand Google and Microsoftto behave differently'cause our mission wasa little bit more thana commercial mission.
It was a behavioral mission,and I think that's ina lot of ways what CFA is, too.
So this is I think in realtime we're trying to articulatethis now, but that's a nice articulation.
- Can I add to that a little bit?The other thing, momentthat came to mind whenyou asked me that was in the second year,this woman that brought us in Detroit,which is a crazy place to work.
Had a great experience with the fellows.
I can tell you about theproducts, but the point isat the end of the year she said,"You know, I've spent 25years in public service,"and I gave up on feelinglike I could serve the public.
"And now with these toolsI feel like I'm serving"the public again."And that felt somehowlike product-market fit.
- [John] Yep, yep.
So play it forward towhere we are now in 2015.
So how many people are, how do you counthow many people are in CFA?- So that's a really goodquestion, and we haveabout 45 staff.
We currently have 24 fellows.
There are 34,000 people whoat least somewhat regularlygo to Code for America Brigade Meetings.
So brigades are ongoing volunteer groups.
They meet up through meet up.
They often meet weekly incity halls around the country,and they're the kind ofvolunteer fire department,but for technology essentially.
And some of them very muchconsider themselves, you know,I mean if you say how manypeople are at Code for America,there's a whole bunch ofthose people who would say,I'm in Code for America.
- [John] Yep, that'salso common themes fromwhat you hear withMozilla, too, which is likeyou turn a weakness is, youcan't hire enough people,to a strength, which isyou've become inclusive,bringing everyone.
So you said staff about 45, fellows 24.
That's a nice effect, too, right?Because you have people come in,and then they automatically leave.
- Yeah.
- And then they come back in,and they automatically leave.
So you have alumni too, right?An alumni network.
- Yeah, that's right.
And there's so much crossover now.
We've got, we also have,part of our extended familyis we have six start upsthat have spun out ofCode for America.
Some of those start ups were founded by,one of them was foundedby one fellow and oneformer city partner.
We've got former fellows that are now our,then go into citygovernment and then hire us.
We've got fellows that havecome from city government,and it's just now everybodysort of is in this square danceof being at some place inthe Code for America family.
- [John] And I guess fora little while you hadan accelerator program, too,where people from the outsidewould come in, and you'dgive them hugs, more or less.
- Yes, yeah.
- Could you talk about how that worked?- Well, sort of round aboutthe end of the first yearof Code for America wewere realizing that some ofthese things that were comingout were products that couldsustain at least a small company.
And we started thinking about,if we're gonna achieve ourvision, which is that governmentcan work for the people, by thepeople, in the 21st century,if everybody helps out, thenit's not just governmentsthat need to act differently.
It's not just the peoplewho need to act differently,as evidenced by the34,000 people who do this,but the government ecosystemhas to really change as well.
And so we knew that therewas a lot of entrepreneurialactivity that, potentialentrepreneurs that were notunderstanding the valueof the government market.
So we did two things really.
We started incubating someof the fellowship projectsthat could be sustained as companies,and those are the six spin outs.
But we also hosted threecycles of the first evergovernment market focusedaccelerator program.
And we thought nobody would apply.
The first year I think wehad 194 companies applyto the accelerator, probablybecause we were sort ofwalking around there going,you know, I don't think anyone,does anyone understandthe size of the governmenttechnology market?- Oh yeah, how big do peoplethink, like do you know?Do you have a number?- I have a number, they're disputed.
- How big do you peoplethink the governmenttechnology market is?Like what are some guesses?Two hundred billion?A trillion?Ten billion?- [Voiceover] Five hundred billion.
- Five hundred billion.
What do you think?- Your first guess was theclosest, just a little bitunder two hundred, andthat's just domestically,and it's just technology, right?So the ability to usetechnology to capture backcost savings in what wecall service deliveryis not even captured there.
If you wanna talk about sizeof government, you know,we're spending about atrillion dollars a yearon government safety netprograms in the United States,and most of that is mediatedby very, very poor technology.
- [John] (laughs) Right.
OK, so OK.
And then now you've expandedyour quote product linesfrom, you got the brigades,you've got the fellows.
What other products doyou have now in 2015?So what we're gonna dois we're gonna talk aboutthe products for a minute, andthen we're gonna talk aboutyour customers for a second.
We're gonna go back andtalk about why you did this,and then we're gonna talkabout how you operatefor a little while.
- OK.
- So talk about what otherproducts you have now.
- Well, what we're doing nowis focusing in four areas.
And so we've got teams offolks that work outside ofthe fellowship in healthand human services,in safety in justice, which isbasically community policingand reducing incarceration inthe criminal justice system.
Economic development andwhat we call communicationsand engagement.
So there are products withinthose that aren't necessarilypart of the fellowship.
We've been working on aneasier way for city governmentsto publish information totheir citizens and hear backfrom their citizens, forinstance, that are more likea company would have sortof a real set of productsthat we sell to folks.
- [John] Why those areas?Why HHS, why safety in justice?How did you find your way to those?- Well it was somewhat emergentand then somewhat strategic.
So we had been asked overtime to do projects ineach of those areas inthe first four yearsof Code for America.
- [John] Asked by your customers.
- Asked by our customers,so the way we used to do itbasically was we would say,it was very driven by mayors.
So mayors wanted to haveCode for America come.
Frankly there is a very nice PR bump.
Our fellows wear theseblue American appareltrack jackets, and they'llhave a press conference,and they'll show up in this city,and they look like techies,and the mayor gets to say like,we're bringing tech talentto the city.
And partly because of that wewould basically do the projectthat the mayor wanted us to do.
I mean, in the case ofDiscover BPS with the schoolselection thing, it was thething that was like drivingthe mayor crazy.
I mean, he was getting angryletters from constituents.
But we found that as we weredoing stuff across the board,every area of government.
And when we looked at wherewe wanted to get deeperand have not just be doingsort of demonstration projectsthat got people excited abouta new way of doing things,but actually building on thatwork and being able to getreal outcomes in each of those areas.
We said, look, we're gonna have to focus.
We've got, you know,experiments already in thosefour areas, reallyinteresting experiments.
We've got products in thoseareas that we can build onand reuse, and it happensto be that those four areasare things that, you usedthe term the other day,hair on fire.
Like there is hair on firein this country aroundcommunity policing and overreliance on incarceration.
And if you can use dataand what we call servicedelivery service redesign thatbasically making the systemsthat people use to interactwith government betterto reduce those things, it'ssomething that's really,really important to government,and it's really importantto the people.
And that's true also inthe delivery of services topeople who need food stamps,to the child welfare system,all of these things are really,really, really huge problemsfor government, so we getattention 'cause they'rereally big problems.
- [John] Let's go back tothe beginning and talk aboutwhy you did it, about why.
So why did you do this?Why did you start it?What, why did you do it?Did you have to do it?Did you say, this needs tobe done, and like nobody elseis raising their hand?- That's basically it.
I had been working on anotherevent that was a sister eventto those Web 2.0conferences called Gov 2.0.
And through the research for that event,and we were trying tosort of define the space.
So Gov 2.0 back in2007-2008 kind of meant getgovernment agencies on social media.
And Tim O'Reilly, who I wasworking with at the time,had a notion that it meantsomething much more powerful.
It meant like all of thedisruptive nature of Web 2.0applied to government, and theability to really think aboutgovernment as a platformfor more generative workin the same way that at thattime the iPhone was coming out,and it was going, oh,platforms make it possibleto do all these amazing things.
So in the course of thatwork we actually went to D.C.
quite a bit, and were talkingto people about how they didtechnology for government.
And it was just so shockingly bad.
So much money gets spent on these things.
Things are built from theground up that just should bereusable components, that itwas very eye-opening in a waythat like only the ultimatenerd would be sort ofoutraged about it, but I waspretty outraged about it.
And the idea to do a serviceyear program was actuallycame from a friend of minewho worked in local governmentand who wanted me to bringpeople from the Web 2.0world to Tucson, Arizonato do apps for Tucson.
And I kept saying it wouldn't happen,but the service year programseemed like a really good idea.
And when we thought of it,I did spend a fair amountof time thinking who should do this,and realizing that no one elsewas gonna do it, and that...
I'm not technical, actually.
I've written HTML, butI'm not really a coder,but that I had spent a longtime building a networkof people who would probablybe interested in this,and that that network wouldbe something that I couldbring to bear on tryingto solve the problem.
- Yeah, a couple of conceptsthat Michael Dearingand Anne Miraco talked aboutis that they like start upsto have authentic (mumbling).
The start up's inside them,and they can't keep it in.
That feels a little bitlike what happened here.
And then it's interesting'cause your background untilthe Gov 2.0 stuff wouldn'tobviously say to me thatyou were gonna go try to fixall of government with nerds.
- I also wasn't entrepreneurial.
I mean, I worked forcompanies until this time.
It was completely likethrow caution to the wind,quit your job, have no income.
It was totally insane.
- [John] And the framing was broad.
It was just let's try tomake government less stupidby applying nerds, more or less.
- Yeah, that was it, that was all we had.
- It's not such a bad strategy.
OK, so Chris?- [Chris] Yeah, why didn'tyou do it as a for profit?- [John] The question is, whydidn't you do it as a for profit?- Yeah, and it's a goodquestion, and people ask usall the time why don't webecome a for profit now?The answer at the time wasthat we were asking peopleto come do a year of service.
So if you're gonna work formarket rate I just don't thinkpeople would have done it ifthey felt that they were justcontributing to someone else's profit.
The answer is different today,but it's not that different.
There may be a some pointpieces of this that,I mean, we've alreadyspun out six companies,so it's not at all that webelieve that non-profitswill fix this.
I think it's we wanna playa certain role in creatingan ecosystem them willbe largely driven byfor profit companies.
But right now I think it'sstill the right thing for us,and I think we're able toattract people who wanna bepart of it.
- Yeah, and this is what,two comments on that.
So one is similar to whatMitchell and Brendan didwith Mozilla, which is they said, look,we can't compete symmetrically here.
We have to compete in a newway, and we're gonna do thisthing in a open source waythat involves community.
But as the quid pro quowe're gonna commit to this,that we're not gonna becomesuper rich from this.
We're gonna pour all thisback, so it was the covenantbetween Mitchell and Brendanand the community at some levelthat they wouldn't profitextraordinarily from it.
So I think that's part of it.
You have to figure outwhat your advantages are,and how to play them,and what makes that work.
Non-profit status is part of that.
The second thing I should havementioned a few minutes ago,which is I think you'regonna find themes throughoutthe course, Eric Schmidtfor sure, me and Lou Reedand Jen, that we're allpretty flexible about how wethink about organizations.
So I think that like themodel of the organization'schanging quickly now, whichis there are spin outs,there are affiliate organizations,there are arms lengthaffiliations, there are groupsof people who just hang outand do stuff together.
Like the brigade is justsome people who do stuff,but they feel affinity.
And so I think that ourtraditional notions of associationand work are changing quite quickly now.
I think you're gonna see that everywhere.
So I think that the mostagile organizational thinkerswill be the most innovative over time.
- [Voiceover] Where did theearly funding come from,and (mumbling).
- The question is where didthe early funding come from,and how long did it take to raise, yeah?- I got three $10,000 checksthat helped us get started,one from a friend on my birthday.
That was nice.
Head of a foundation.
She bought me a wallet,actually, for my birthday,and she said, "Open the wallet."That was nice.
One from Jean Case of Case Foundation.
- [John] Steve Case.
- Steve and Jean Case, yeah.
And one from the Sunlight Foundation,who also were our fiscalsponsors for the beginning.
And that was enough justto like pay legal fees andbe able to pay for FedEx's tocity governments and stuff.
- Happy birthday, here's $10,000 dollars.
Now go work for a hundred hours a week forthe rest of your life.
- Exactly.
And then I think thatactually Stacy at Omidyar,Stacy Donohue at the OmidyarNetwork is the first foundationto give us a check thatenabled us to pay salaries,which was really good'cause I was losing my mind.
Yeah.
- In back.
- [Voiceover] You said initially you hadthe governments apply?- [Jennifer] Um hmm.
- [Voiceover] Like how does that work?How did you first of all get (mumbling).
- If you're a fake organization?The question is how did youget cities and governmentsto apply to your fakeorganization for this fake prize?But it actually was a real prize.
- Yeah, it was a real prize,and they actually got a lot,I mean, they were mostlyreally happy with it.
Seattle not so much.
You know, it's actuallya pretty common thing,and I don't know that I realizedthat we were stumbling onsomething that was quitecommon in government.
A lot of like federal grants,for instance, are administeredby like here's the challenge, apply.
Tell us why you're the rightfolks to get this assistanceor whatever, so we were kindof accidentally just playedright into a thing that theyalready like knew to do.
I mean, again, I thinkthe issue of us not beinga real thing at the timewas just looking good.
You know, having a decentwebsite just makes youlook legitimate, or atleast it did in 2010.
But you know, you make 'em sorta I saydance for grandma a little bit,and somehow they take you seriously.
- [John] There's a lotof stories like this,like many, many start ups, andthey had enterprise customerscome in, they'll go rentemployees, or you know,rent space or borrow space from people.
I think mostly it's abouthow do you communicate.
It's not lying exactly.
You're trying to figureout how to get them enoughconfidence that you're gonna deliver.
You really have to believethat you can deliver.
That's pretty key.
- And the folks thatwere actually applying,like Nigel and Chris inBoston, absolutely knew thatwe were making this up.
It's the other peoplein City Hall that theyhad to convince, and that'swhere the website came in.
- [John] Alright, there in the back.
- [Voiceover] (mumbling)- How difficult was it toclose the first big deal?- [Voiceover] What was that like?- Big is kinda probably inquotes because the first big dealwas probably $20,000 dollarsfrom a city or something.
- No, we got $250,000 outof some of them, yeah.
How difficult was it?It was difficult, but another sort ofmechanism that we had,or sort of a tactic waswe made it a contest, soif you won you were able toput out a press releasesaying Austin's been selected.
And we had a deadline, sowe had fellows starting onJanuary 1st, and we saidyou're not in if you don't getthe contract signed tous by whatever it was,probably September 1st.
And I've learned this since in government,it's funny that youactually sometimes relearnthe mistakes you've madebefore, but we were working withanother city government, whomI love but will not name here,on a contract that didn't have a deadline,and it took forever.
So having forcing functionsis just incredibly valuable,especially in a government context.
- Yeah, forcing functionsare important I think inall sales cycles.
I think some sense ofscarcity, some sense of FOMOis a word we talk about a lot.
- Yeah.
- Fear of missing out,that if they don't sign up,like some other stupidcity is gonna get it.
Fresno's gonna get thespace or whatever it is.
So let's keep moving a littlebit because things weregoing pretty well.
So you play it forward to 2013.
It's the third year of the fellowship.
Things were going pretty well.
We had 12 cities or something like thatthe third year?- Yeah.
- And so then Jen calls me inApril or something like thatand says, "OK, great,things are going great.
"I'm thinking about leaving for a year."So can you talk about, andto go work in Washington D.C.
And so can you talk about whatit felt like to contemplateleaving this thing whichyou clearly found productmarket fit, cities wantedit, there were pulling on it,and you said, well, Iwanna do this other thingfor a little bit, but I'lltotally be right back in a year.
Can you talk about what that was like?- Yes.
- And why you did it?- So I called you in yeah, March or April,but the whole thing hadstarted back in November.
And Todd Park, who is theCTO in the White House,really had created a programmodeled after Code for Americacalled the PresidentialInnovation Fellows Program,which I would recommendto all of you as well asthe Code for America program,if you're interested,and wanted me to come help him run it.
And it was sort of his play at innovation,shaking things up in the White House.
And so the election was justover, and he was waitingto talk to me about thisuntil they knew we had a jobfor the next four years.
And initally I was, I meanit was a good four weeksafter he asked me before Ieven began to consider it.
He said, you know, needed to come.
I was like I can't move to D.C.
I have a start up.
I mean, I had like all thesecompletely solid reasons whythat was never going to happen,but I really, really, reallyliked Todd, and I really,really loved the ideathat they were doing this.
So I kept saying let me...
I'll help you find the rightperson, and furthermore,I really think you should think beyond thePresidential Innovation Fellows Program,and you should think aboutcreating a core servicewithin federal governmentthat does good technology.
And that was because when hecalled me I happened to bevisiting the GovernmentDigital Service in the U.K.,which had done that,and done it very well.
And I had my mind blowed bythat, so I used the opportunityof being recruited to justpitch him back on something,but had no intention of doing this,and certainly not of moving to D.C.
I mean, I have a now 12-year-old daughter,who was not going to move to D.C.
So this was not just the start up.
There are things evenbigger than the start up.
- [John] Todd's a prettygood recruiter, it turns out.
Todd's one of the bestrecruiters in the world.
- He's the best recruiter in the world.
That night Nick Sinai, whowas the Deputy CTO thereat the time, who waswith me in London said,"I heard you got a call from Todd."And I said, well you know,I'm not gonna do this.
And he looked at me and hesaid, "Have you ever heard"the term water on stone?"And I was like, "What?"And he's like, "We will get you.
"It's like water on stone."And that's what it was like.
It was just, he doesn't let it go.
- Yeah, you can't give Todd any daylight.
If you give him anydaylight at all, he's like,oh interesting.
You don't wanna do itbecause of X, got it.
And then he moves X, andit changes, and it's like,"Maybe if I have the President call you.
"Let me see, let me see,I'll be right back."And he's a very, verypersistent recruiter,and that's what he doesfor the President nowin this program that Jen started.
- No, I would say insome ways I felt like Ididn't have a choice, butthat's not obviously fair.
I did have a choice, but hewas extremely persistent.
- Yeah, Todd started acompany called Athena Health,which is a big healthcare company.
And then he started anothercompany called Caslight.
And then he decided therewere bigger problems to solve,bigger fish to fry, sohe went to the governmentand worked as the CTO forHealth and Human Servicesbefore becoming the CTOfor the White House.
- And I think in those twojobs he got enough exposureto why the healthcare system is as it is,that you have to follow that train back tofederal government.
In the end I said yes becausehe went and created theopportunity to createan American GovernmentDigital Service, and said,"I did the thing you asked.
"Now you have to come",which felt like, OK,I didn't actually say that, butthat felt, yes, it wassort of manipulative,but it worked out well.
And because I was runningthis organization,and I was dealing with peoplewho work in government whohave very specific challengesthat are hard to understandif you don't work ingovernment, and I had heard thatover and over again, notjust from our partners,but actually from the fellows.
It was the fellows coming back and saying,"No, no, no, no, no,you don't understand."It's really, really, reallydifferent the way decisionsget made, the incentives, the cultureis very hard to understandif you're not part of it,and I did feel in the endlike if I was going to spendthe rest of my lifeasking people to come workwith government, and I wasn'twilling to do it myself,A, did I really have thecourage of my convictions?And B, would I reallyever understand our clientwell enough?- Yeah, I think my observationis they gave you aninsanely powerful tool to use now.
It's like, oh I've been there,I've been in your shoes,I understand how it feels.
So tell me about whatit, so that was a year,and you stepped away, andyou put a leadership teamin place to bridge, andreally you burned the candleat both ends realistically.
You were also on Board callseven while you were away.
So but tell me what itwas like to come back.
So you started this organization.
You let somebody elserun it for a little bit,although you were around.
And then you came back, andhow did your lens change?How did you look at itdifferently than before?And what did you not seeright away that had changed?Just talk about coming back a little bit.
- Well, I think it was aprofoundly strange experiencein some ways.
I had been through not justa year in the White House,but a year of healthcare.govcrashing and burning,being around that, tryingto start the United StatesDigital Service, manytimes sort of wanting tostick a pencil in my eye.
I actually felt prettydemotivated at the end.
Not demotivated, I felt when Ileft that I hadn't succeeded,and I was just,I look back it now, andit was a wonderful year,and so much good stuff has happened,but it's really hard whenyou're in the middle of it.
So I was sort of coming backto Code for America sayingbreath of fresh air.
Now I'm in an environmentwhere I'm the CEO,I'm in control, and it'sgonna be so different from theincredibly difficult yearI had trying to convincea bunch of people to do thisthing that was obviouslythe right thing to do forme, you know, in my view,but not obviously the rightthing to do in their view.
And found that, in fact, the organizationhad changed a lot.
It took me a longer time todiagnose that than I thought.
It looked the same, and peoplewere saying the same words,and so I very much wish Icould take back those firstthree months and do thosefirst three months differentlyupon return.
And what I really needed to do,first thing I did when Icame back is I met withevery staff member, and likehalf the staff at that pointwas new 'cause we'd grownso much while I was gone,and got to know them alittle, but I didn't askthe right questions.
And I didn't understand thatthis focus area strategyI talked about earlier thatwe thought we were doingwasn't happening.
And so it was a process ofreally seeing past the surfaceand grappling with alot of good intentions,but a different direction thatI'd really wanted it to go,and sort of trying to steereven a non-profit in a waythat took some time, andit was a wake up call to meI think about how organizations work.
- Chris?- [Chris] What would theright questions have been?- Chris always asks those questions.
- That is a really good question.
I mean, very specifically atthe time there were just thingsI missed about, when Icame back we were startingour recruitment cycle forour next set of partners.
And I didn't ask specificenough questions aboutthe sales offering, about howwe were framing it becauseI assumed that thingsthat we were talking aboutat the Board had sortof translated down fromthe Executive Director to the staff,and I just should havesort of from the ground uplooked at more materialspecifically, asked you know, OK,will we be, how are we workingin these focus areas now?And I did ask a number of questions.
I mean, it was an awkwardtime because I came back toa couple of programs thathad been started that werereally, really had greatintentions, but they werewhat Eric Reese calls zombieprojects, like they didn't haveany clear metrics, soyou couldn't kill 'em,or there was no reason forthem to live or die becauseyou didn't know why theyexisted in the first place,other than sort of peoplefelt good about them,so we shut down a couple of programs.
So there was already sortof heightened sensitivity toJen's back, and things are different.
- [John] Jen's back, andshe's killing projects.
- And I'm killing projects.
And so then, you know, Ikind of wanted to demonstratethat I trusted the team, andI wasn't a micro manager.
And I think there was a waynot to be a micro manager,but still understand thatdecisions that were made inthe first few monthswhen I was already backwere on track, and if I haddug in we would have beenable to steer those becausethe way Code for America worksis it takes you nine monthsbefore you start working withthe government partnerto get that all set up.
So you live with theconsequences of your decisionsfor a really long time.
- So the staff about doubled, right,between when you were first,then when you came back.
- Yep.
- So tell me about how youthink about what it takesto manage differently now,now the staff's 50 peopleinstead of 25 people, giveor take, and so as a CEO,how has your job changed?As that's grown, how doyou manage differently now?- Well, as you know, I don'tfeel like we're entirelyin a complement there.
- I have to say this isthe part where Jen's gonnasay something self-deprecating,but she's doing fine.
- Well thank you, but wedefinitely need more operationalstrength in terms of managing.
- What does that mean,operational strength?- The day-to-day.
You know, I'm here doingthis talk instead of...
I mean, very literally atthis moment, and due to getOKR's back to our focusarea leads so that they canship them to our functional area leads,and I'm here instead.
(laughter and applause)- This will be a theme, too.
People with day jobs don'thave enough time to teach,but thank you.
- So you know, there's ablocking and tackling ofone on one's with yourkey staff, you know,are we clear on our goalsthat just sometimes get missedbecause I'm on the road,I'm doing fund raising,I'm doing public speaking anddoing business development.
And you know, we're hiringfor Chief Operating Officerso that there's someonewho's more consistently thereto do those things and makesure we're still on track,and like really readthrough all the OKR's,and really edit them,really make sure we'reon the same page.
But I did have a benefitearly on at having I feel likeand I hope everybody has this experience,and I've had it previousin my career, too,where the words you saymean the same things tothe people you're talking to.
It's just such a beautiful feeling.
And I mean I had one staffearly on, very young guy,just right out of college he came in.
I think he could just read my mind,and there was very littlesort of friction in terms oftranslation from what I intendedand then what was executed.
And when you have it team like that,it feels really, really great.
And you just can't counton that continuing.
And so the thing I do just sortof daily right now is try toremind myself, I know I said those words,but that's probably notwhat that person heard.
Let's double back and check.
And where I fall down is ifI don't go back and checkbecause I'm on a planeelsewhere, and you know,it's gotta move forward,and you're not going, OK,let's match between whatwe thought we said we weregonna do and what we'reactually doing, you know.
There's a great quote, theproblem with communicationis the illusion that it has occurred.
- That's a beautiful quote,that's exactly right.
So that's one of my favorite topics.
I think of the role as aCEO, so I think that as youget bigger CEO's start totalk about more and more wordslike communication and alignment.
- Oh my god, I hatethe term alignment now.
- Yeah, I love the word.
Alignment is almost all Ithink about as you get biggerbecause what you're trying to do is get-- It's on our list of wordsyou're not supposed to sayat the office anymore, andI still say it all the time.
- That's good to know.
Noted.
The reason you talk aboutis what you're trying to dois create an organizationwhere the organization willroughly make the sameset of decisions whetheryou're in the room or not.
So how do you do that?And especially if you'regrowing, if you're doublingevery year, if you'regrowing more and more people?People will come in who don'thave a ton of time with Jen.
The things she said, I mean,it's an amazing experienceto have somebody you workwith that your don't have totalk in complete sentences to.
Like there's somebody that Iworked with for better partof 25 years, guy named MikeHanson who's at Stanford CS,he and I can finisheach other's sentences,and he's the smartest technicalperson I've ever known.
I can say three words,and he codes a prototype,and like boom.
And like that's an unbelievablypowerful relationship.
And the net is if you everfind a relationship like that,do not let it go.
Invest, invest, invest.
But as CEO what's happeningis you're bringing moreand more people in, and you'll say words,and like Jen says, they'reperfectly clear to you.
They're probably perfectlyclear to some percentageof the staff, and they areprobably like Greek to someof the rest of the staff.
I remember in my start up,Reactivity, we hired a CEOwho was an HP guy, andhe's an amazing guy namedGlen Osaka, and he used toget so pissed off at me.
Like the first year he wasCEO, and I had stepped downfrom being CEO, he hadalmost fired me literallyfour times that year becauseI was such an asshole.
But we got into such fights.
I was the founder, I was a kid, whatever.
We'd get in these meetingswhere he would say,well, in the near term we needto do this and that and this.
And I'm like, in thenear term we have to dolike this and that.
And what we realized islike when he said near term,he meant like 18 months,and I meant like Tuesday.
(laughter)And we're like, holyshit, we're talking aboutdifferent things, even thoughwe're using the same words.
And so then he gave melike safe words, right?So then goes OK, OK, when we do this,instead of us fighting infront of all the children,just say, let's take this offline.
And we'll go talk aboutit, and then once hefigure that out, once wefigured that out together,we started issues when wehad vocabulary differencesas opposed to intent differences,and that was a breakthrough.
But it takes a lot offucking work when you've gota team that's growing, anda team that's trying to doall their own work, andyou've gotta keep track ofwho knows what, and so asa result, like at Mozilla,like as a result as wegot bigger and biggerI started...
Oh, there's a secondproblem, which is every day,especially in any learning organization,the CEO learns stuff.
- Yep.
- So you learn stuff todaythat makes your thought processa little different than yesterdayin kind of a nuanced way.
And then the next day youlearn a little bit more,and the next day youlearn a little bit more.
And so if you're notcareful, your message changesand kind of moves over time,and you don't get enoughtime with everybody forthem to notice this.
- Right.
- And so at Mozilla I hadto keep simple messages,a small number of messages,and I had to repeat itover and over and over and over and over.
I had to keep it the same very meetinguntil it was time tochange, and when I changed,make a really big change.
Say OK, I'm about to changethis thing I've said for a year,but it's a hard communication problem.
- Yeah, I suffer from that.
- Sure.
- [Voiceover] You said youhave this kind (mumbling).
Did you have those guyswhen you were (mumbling).
- So the question is, werethe folks that I relied on-- [Voiceover] Yeah, werethey there when you went tolook for government, or didyou have to hire those people?How did that work?- We didn't hire newleadership when I left,but that was partly becauseI made this promise tobe right back.
Let me just go set up aservice in the White House,and I'll be right back.
- [John] One thing thathappens when you hiretemporary leadership orinterim leadership isthey tend to fill up theslot that the person was in,and so it tends to notexist when they come back.
- Yeah, so yes, one of thefolks that I was referring tocould sort of read my mindwas there when I left, yeah.
- [John] Other questions forJen, and I'll keep askingquestions, too, but do you have questions?- [Voiceover] I'm from the south.
What's your strategy topenetrate like a much moreculturally less accepting ofI guess, change in general?What's your (mumbling) areas like that?- What are you saying about the south?- [Voiceover] I'm justsaying 'cause you studiedBoston, Seattle, D.C., likethat's different than likerural Alabama, like allof underserved communitiesthat might not be so open to (mumbling).
So what's your strategy dealing with that?- So the question is,what's the CFA strategy fordealing with cities thatmight not be as progressiveas some of the early adopters?Which actually kind of acommon customer question, too.
- Yes, it's a really good question.
Before I answer it I'llsay, I mean, we've workedin Atlanta, we've workedin Louisville, Kentucky.
We've worked in, I mean,we've worked in somesmaller places.
We haven't worked a tonin the south, I'll agree,but we're also often in placesthat are not particularlytech friendly.
There's like one greatchampion for change who'sreally into us, and then alot of folks that might bemore of the culture thatyou're referring to.
So we've done some ofit, but I mean basicallythe strategy is you'vegotta just make this normal.
So the more that theycan look at other cities,bigger cities, cities theirsize, you know, cities that arelike them in some way and say,they're doing it over there,and the sky didn't fall'cause they did it there,then you'll be able to getinto those places that areless friendly or less sortof jumping on the bandwagon.
I think that happens, Imean, stuff that just seemsabsolutely nut balls, youknow, 10 years later it's likewell, that's just how you do it.
And that's what we're trying to do.
We're trying to makethis just how you do it.
And there was a great linefrom our Code for Americasummit which was last week thisyear where someone tweeted,every year this seems less andless like this crazy thing,and more like, of course.
- Yeah, part of startups is just showing upand just doing it, and thenpeople just get used to it.
So I have one more question,and then if we havetime for a couple more questions.
So how do you tell whetheryou're winning or not?'Cause it's not a financialmetric, it's not a user metric.
How do you tell?- So I'll give you the officialanswer, and then sort ofnon-official answer.
We'd set really clear metrics.
There's the one metric toroll them all philosophy,and we have not done that.
We have a number of metrics.
We do a lot of differentprojects, and so we have to havea way of looking across them.
You know, we didn't gowith like users becausesome of these projectshave like three users,but they have very high impact.
So we've gone for thenumber of our projectsthat are sustained.
We've gone for the numberof people who've decidedto stay in government.
We've gone for a whole set ofthings, actually redeploymentsbecause users isn't a greatmetric for us in all cases.
When things are redeployed,we consider themto be successful.
Why would someone redeploy themif they weren't successful?So redeployments are a big metric for us.
So you know, we kind of liveand die by this dashboardwhere we tally up these winsin these different categories,and we report that back to our funders.
I know we're winning whenstuff happens as like happenedlast week where we're in theright place in the right timeto be able to tell somebody that,I won't name what it is,but I will say it's theState of California isabout to put out an RFP fora computer system thatwill run a social service.
And they think that the systemwill cost a billion dollars,and it'll take five years.
And in the meantime ofbuilding, I mean things thattake five years and cost abillion dollars have abouta two percent success rate,especially in government.
So in that meantime, theservice that people and childrenrely on will continueas is, which is terribleand it doesn't work very well.
And we know there's a better approach.
We know you can do thismodularly, iteratively.
We know you can startsmall and build and haveusers involved all the way.
This is being done nowbecause of healthcare,because of the UnitedStates Digital Service,because there's now all these examples,you know that you cando this in government.
And you know, I think wewere in a position to saythere's a lot of politicalreasons why this maymove forward, but I thinkwe might be able to stop it.
And when people are reallylistening to you becauseyou've done something elsefor them that worked outreally well, and they'regoing, OK, maybe there's a wayto make this come outdifferently, and like that'sa big win, then I think we're winning.
Those things make me really happy.
- [John] Sort of remind meof the question a studentasked I think, which isproject forward 10 or 15 years,I'm not sure what the timeframe is.
What's the happy case?Like paint the picture of what happens,or what government's like and what theinteractions are like.
- Well ultimately I think,yeah so the interactions,you would not have thiscompletely like screech experienceif you're having an interaction,either digital or otherwisein government that makesit so different froma consumer transactionthat you would have.
- [John] Getting a(mumbling) or something?- Yeah, and you know,maybe a little differentin some ways, but rightnow there's this huge gulf,and so we need to span that gulf.
There's a ot of ways thatyou might express that.
I think also it's not justfor us in this room, right?I care deeply about governmentworking in ways thatif you've not been on food stamps,or you've not had your kid gointo the child welfare system,or actually if you've nottried to do a start upwithout a lawyer, youwon't see that dysfunction.
And so it's for everybody, right?But I think that the realway we'll know is that peoplewill have greater trustand faith in government,and will support it.
That's the problem.
It's very hard for peopleto support governmentand wanna invest in social safety net,trust government whenthe experience we havekind of makes them lookimcompetent and frustrates us.
So the ultimate goalreally is that we believein government, we investin government and we use itin ways that areconsistent with our values.
So if we're gonna spenda billion dollars onany given service, itoughta be in helping people,not in the computer system, right?We spend $70 billion dollarsa year on food assistancein this country.
Let's actually have that bein money that we give peopleto buy food, right?- [John] Alright, anyother questions for Jen?Sure.
- [Voiceover] So a lot ofpeople in tech like to stay awayfrom government because oflike bureaucratic red tape.
What were some of thebiggest hurdles that you guysencountered with all thedifferent local governments?And how'd you get past them?- [John] So the questionis how do start ups,a lot of people in tech wannastay away from government.
Seems hard, lotta red tape.
What are some hurdles, andhow did you get around them?- There are hurdles forsure, and the biggest oneis procurement.
I could talk all nightlong about procurement.
Let's not do that.
- [John] It's more interestingthan it sounds like.
- It is interesting,it's very interesting.
It's a system that accruedover time to reduce riskwhich has accidentallycreated enormous risk, right?It's created high, veryhigh failure rates.
- [Voiceover] Can youexplain what you mean?I'm not sure what you mean.
- So the system ofprocurement is designed,there's multiple levels ofprocurement systems basically,and it's a way that thegovernment buys things.
We unfortunately buy software the same waywe buy pencils or trucks,which is we spec things outto a very, very high degree,and then we take themout to bid, and there are somany steps in the process.
All of those steps in theprocess are designed toreduce fraud and wastebecause there's verylow levels of trust.
You don't want your taxpayerdollars being spent becauseI decided to give a contractto my cousin, right?So there's all these layersand procedures that arebuilt in to keep that from happening.
Unfortunately that meansif you're a start up,you might experience ninemonths of trying to gothrough a procurement process,or trying to get a bid.
The amount of paperwork is intense.
The number of certificationsyou have to make.
You have to do things likecertify that your bathroomsare labeled properly, likeyou have appropriate labelingon your bathrooms.
I mean, there's all ofthese sorts of crazy things.
- But in nine monthstechnology may have changed.
- Right.
- And projects get long, people roll off.
So like when you get longprojects, people roll off.
That increases the riskof the thing failing.
That's why big projectsjust don't convert.
We know this.
- Well the nine months wouldjust be to get the contract,and then they want you tobuild the thing for five yearsbecause they're giving youspecs for seven modulesof a system that's (mumbling),and you really wanna startsmall and build with users.
But I will say is that it's changing.
We've got a number ofstart ups that came throughour accelerator, and wehad one in particularhad a great rule.
Anyone who complains aboutprocurement is fired.
Just deal with it.
And actually that's workedreally well for them.
But you see procurement hacks.
I mean, a lot of people kindof originally kind of calledCode for America for aprocurement hack becausewe did go through a procurement,but instead of procuringsoftware we were procuringpeople who could dowhat we needed, what was neededin a short period of time.
There are a lot of thingsthat are happening tochange procurement thatare too nerdy for usto go into right now.
To be slightly over the topon nerdiness, for instance,federal government's now issued somethingcalled an Agile BPA.
It's a blanket purchaseagreement for Agilesoftware development.
As this starts to propagatethroughout government,and in fact we'll probablyuse it with the state thatwe're working on to tryto get them off of thisbillion dollar plan which won't work,the problem is the tools at hand.
So you have a ton of peoplein government who knowthe right thing to do, andthey look around and they go,none of the tools that Ihave will get me there.
Oh well, let's just do what we did before.
And when you give them tools,like here's this thing.
It's called the Agile BPA.
It's legal, you can use it, do,then they can do that.
And that's what's changing.
It changes maybe not as fast as I'd like,but it's changing, and thereis now a fund exclusivelyfor government technology start ups,and the guy who runsit, this amazing namedRon Bouganim, who startedit because he worked with usfor a couple of years as avolunteer and saw the dynamicsof the market and sawthat they were changingsays that the average salescycle in his portfolioright now is 86 days,which if you told somebodythat a year ago ingovernment technology,they would have saidyou are crazy.
But it's because people arefinding they have new tools,and they're finding newways of doing things.
- Great, so we should wrapup 'cause Jen's gotta getto the city, as do I, so thank youvery much.
- Thank you, this was fun.
