WEBVTTKind: captionsLanguage: en- So first off just I'llintroduce myself a little bit,so I'm Shishir Mehrotra.
My background, I went toschool out east at MIT.
Don't hold that against me here.
I left school to start acompany called Centrada.
That was back in the 2000s cycle.
I then spent a few years at Microsoft,worked on Office, thenWindows, then SQL Server.
Then spent six years at Google,mostly working at YouTube,that's mostly what we'll talk about today,and I left Google about a yearago to start a new company.
And I don't actually plan tostate much about that today.
So, let me tell you a little bitabout what I'm going to talk about.
So, over the course ofsix years at YouTube,we learned a lot of different things.
What I did, was I triedto pick out some lessonsfrom that period.
And just to give you context,I joined YouTube 2008,and people may forgetbut YouTube was in a verydifferent state at that time.
YouTube had just been purchased by Google,a little over 100 people.
At the time, actuallynot seen as a success,it was seen as a great exit,but seen as a company that may still fail.
There was a lot of people who thought thatGoogle made a big mistakein the acquisition.
And six years later, itlooks very different.
We'll talk about some ofhow those changes happened.
Let's see, I wrote down a couple notesof preamble before we get started.
Let's see, so, oh, my role at YouTube.
So, my role was a littlebit non-traditional,so I thought I would explaina little bit how that worked.
So officially I was responsiblefor product engineeringand user experience.
We actually ran YouTube as a triumvirate,so a guy named Salar Kamangarwas what you would call the chairman CEO,and then day to day operations were run bymyself and a guy named Robert Kinsel.
So Robert generallyhandled the business side,so he handled sales, marketing,content partnership, and so on,and I handled the product site,and the three of us dida lot of stuff together,so these stories are mainlycoming out of those experiences.
One other caveat is,I have no made attemptto be comprehensive.
I think there's lots of thingsthat matter as you scale,I have prioritized counterintuitive and interesting.
In fact, the way we put the talk together,was last night I sat down with a friend,with 20, 25 stories, and hestack ranked them for me.
So, you're going to see theten that are interesting.
They may seem somewhatrandom in different order,but hopefully stuff thatis counter intuitive.
And then goals, so Ihave two goals for today.
I imagine this room has,Reed was telling me,has a wide group of people,at various differentpoints in their career.
The way I think about this is,as you hit those moments of scaling,my goal is to take some of these storiesand A, help you recognize when yousee one of those patterns, and B,give you a set of tools andlessons to apply at those times.
So, I'll try and do thatthroughout the talk.
And, I think that's it, let's get started.
So, these are the ten we'regoing to talk through.
I said it, they're notsort of well structured,but I did find a natural grouping.
So, the first two I called choose wisely.
The general theme there is,I don't know how many peoplehere are poker players,but every poker player will tell you,learning how to play poker is partiallyabout learning how to play the game,but mostly about learning to pickwhich table to sit down on.
So, I'll talk a little bit abouthow you pick which table to sit down on.
Charting the course, I think of as,the core of running a business.
How do you make hard choices,how do you think about ecosystems,values, so on.
And then, the last three I'll focus onsome team related things.
How do you pick people,how do you organize them,what's your own role in those situations,and so on.
That's going to be the ten.
Good, alright, let's start.
So, tailwinds.
So, let's start with tailwinds.
The story I want totell here is a bit aboutthe YouTube tailwinds.
And really the mainpoint I want to talk about here is,how to pick businessesthat have great tailwinds.
So, let's start by looking at what,how we used to describethe YouTube tailwinds.
So, this is how wedescribed it for YouTube.
So, back in 1988 the number one showon TV was the Cosby Show.
The Cosby Show got a 25 point rating,had about a 50 percent household share.
For people not familiarwith media metrics,what that means is, if your TV was onon a Thursday night at 8 o'clock,there was a better than average chanceyou were watching the Cosby Show.
You fastforward ten years,the number one show on TV was Seinfeld.
Very similar ratings, verysimilar household share,but if you go 10 years past that,you get to 2008 and you seeAmerican Idol with a 12 point share.
Now, one interesting sidenote in this story isSeinfeld in its first few episodesactually didn't do that well,its pilot and a few episodes after that.
And so Seinfeld was almost cancelledby the NBC executives,and if you go back and look at its ratingsduring that period, Seinfeld actually hadbetter ratings thanAmerican Idol had in 2008,so the new normal was set ina very short period of time.
So, one obvious questionis, what happened?Where did all those people go?Did they stop watching television?The answer to that is no,actually through that whole period,the number of hours a day the averageAmerican family spent watching televisionactually went up every single year.
What seems to have happenedis this bottom line, thechoice all of a sudden changed.
And this chart is justlooking at cable networks,this is about in thattime frame, 2008, 2009,and this is just plotting cable networkson one axis and audienceshare on the other.
And just shows that about 50 percent,if you take all the networksthat had less than 1 percent share,they accounted for about50 percent of viewership,and ones that had lessthan half a point share,counted for 30 percent of viewership.
Half a point is an important mark,because it's actually whereNeilsen stops measuring.
And this was, this aboutthe amount of viewershipthat's sort of unaccountedfor, on television.
So, how does this apply to YouTube?So the YouTube thesis mappeddirectly to this narrative,and the way we would talk about it is,if you looked back overthe history of television,there was a long period of timewhere we had three major networks.
Fox got added in later.
And then over a short period of timethat turned into hundredsof cable channels,and the YouTube tailwindwas this trend we saw,that we thought, or think,that the same transition was aboutto happen in the online video world.
Or to say it differently,we believe online video'sgoing to do to cablewhat cable did to broadcast television.
We are going to go from tens of channels,or ones of channels, to tens of channels,to thousands or millions of channels.
Okay, so why does this matter here?One of the things I've beenable to do across my careeris work on lots ofdifferent types of products.
Some that have great tailwinds,some that have great headwinds.
And if I had to give one clear lesson,it's work on ones thathave great tailwinds.
And there's a few reasons why.
One is that it accelerateseverything you do.
You can do little thingsand they become amplified.
But probably the biggest reason I'd sayis it covers a lot of mistakes,and in the period of building something,you're inevitably going to make mistakes.
I think picking thingsthat have those tailwindsmakes it much easier toweather through them.
So, that's for lesson number one.
When you're picking which table to set up,pick ones that have tailwinds.
Alright, number two.
Let's talk about purpose.
So, Daniel Pink wrote this book.
Anybody read this book?So, it looks like a few.
It's called Drive.
It's about what motivates people.
The book's pretty good,if you aren't thatinterested in reading it,go watch, there's a YouTube video of it.
And if you're even less interested,I can summarize for you quickly now.
So the book is basically,his theory is what motivespeople is three things,mastery, autonomy, and purpose.
Mastery is being good at what you do.
Autonomy is having the room and spaceto be able to do it well,and purpose is feeling a connection,feeling a connectionbetween that and impact.
And he tells a lot of great storiesabout how to look at eachof those different things,and how it impacts motivation and so on.
Over the years, I've cometo the conclusion thatof those three, the one thatmatters the most is purpose.
So, I want to tell youa little bit about howI thought about purpose at YouTube.
And the story I want totell is about this fellow.
Who knows who this guy is?Okay, everybody knows.
So that's Sal Kahn.
This guy, I assume, less people know.
His name is Imran.
That's Sal's eldest son.
He's actually involved in the story too.
So, let me tell you a little story aboutsome of the early days at YouTube.
So, Sal and I actuallywent to college together,and stayed in pretty close touch.
We both ended up marryingour college sweethearts.
Both our wives are physicians.
Moved across the countryabout the same time.
We went different paths,he ended up in the hedge fund industry,I ended up in the technology industry.
But we would get together regularly,and in 2008 I had just joined YouTube,and he and his wife were over for dinner.
And, so conversation started,and I happened to mentionthat I just joined YouTube.
And he said, oh, you know,I actually use YouTube a lot.
I said, great, that's wonderful.
He said, no, no, no, I use YouTube,like I upload to YouTube a lot.
And he was trying toexplain what he was doing,and for people that don't know the story,he's got this cousin in Louisianathat he was helping with math homework,and the easiest way he could find to tutorher was to have her send questions andhe'd post answers as YouTube videos,and send them back.
Really, he was using YouTube becauseit was an easier way to send a video file.
He said, it's kind of interesting,I've been doing this,and a lot of peopleseem to be watching it,and the conversation kind of moved on.
Next day I go to work,and we had this dashboardwe could use to look uphow channels were doing, and this is 2008,so this is Stanford, MIT hadboth just started uploadingall the footage of alltheir classes to YouTube,and I go and I did some quick math,and realized that actually Sal was gettingmore viewership thanStanford and MIT combined.
So, I write him a note,and I say, I don't knowif you realize this but,you're kicking Stanford and MIT's butt.
You have to get into theYouTube partner program.
At the time, you couldn't make moneyon YouTube without beingin the partner program,and you had to get invited into that.
So, we invited him intothe partner program,and he accepted, and startedmaking money on YouTube.
So, fast forward a few months later,he and his wife are back over for dinner.
His wife happened to be pregnant,actually with Imran at the time.
My wife was pregnant withour younger one at the time,and again conversation turns to YouTube,and he says, Shishir,thanks for setting me upin the partner program, it'sbeen a great experience so far.
And then he kind of pullsme aside a little bit,and he says, you know,I've been doing some math,and looking at the checks coming in,and I think actually we'rereally close to them,and I can see clearly wherethis is going to cross our rent,and I've been thinking about it,and I can see a little bit further outit might cross my hedge fund salary.
I don't really likeworking at hedge funds,so I'm thinking about quittingand doing this full time.
And he said, what do think I should do?And this is the momentwhere his wife Umaimagave me the stare of death,and said, answer this question properly.
And thankfully I told him,you know, I just bet my career on it,I would be encouragingof you doing the same.
To be clear, Sal'sachievements are all his own,and I think I had thisone little, tiny momentwhere I gave him a little extra nudge,but he did end up quitting,and the rest of the story,it sounded like everybody here knows,and Khan Academy now reaches millionsof people and has tens ofmillions of users, and so on.
But the interesting part about that story,is imagine if this had playedout just a few years earlier.
Imagine if Sal had said,I have this great idea,I need to go on to a cable network.
And he had said, hey,I want to create thisnew educational show.
And they would say, great,do you have any experience as a teacher?And he said, well, not really,but I think I'm pretty good at math.
So, okay, okay, do you have anyexperience as an entertainer?And he said, no, not really,although he is pretty funny.
And they say, okay, welltell me about the show.
Well, here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to start at thebeginning of the algebra book,and I'm going to start solving problems,and when I get to the end of that book,I'm going to pick up the next book andI'm going to do the same thing.
And by the way, I don't want to showmy face in any of the videos,and I don't want to have any storylines or plots or anything.
Will you fund my show?I think he would've gotten laughed outof just about everycable network out there.
Thankfully, he didn'thave to pitch anybody.
And this is a theme we used to refer to asa gatekeeperless world.
And he ended up being able tostart his career on YouTube,and now he's arguably one of thebiggest educators on the planet.
Now, the reason this matters here.
Fast forward a few years later, to 2010.
I actually was, let's saynot feeling so good at work,and was debating making a switch.
I was being recruited by another firm,thinking about leaving YouTube.
I have an advisor, aguy named Dean Gilbert,so I called him up andsaid, what should I do?And he asked me to make three lists,and I think this would behelpful for you guys as well.
So, list number one, he said,what are you hoping toaccomplish in the next year?List number two, he said, okay, take that,take list number one, andfigure out which of those thingswouldn't happen if you were to leave.
And list number three,was take list number two,and say, which of those things wouldyou feel really terrible about?Not terrible about thenext day, or the next week,but months and years later,which of those would youfeel really terrible about?And, list number one,you could say is goals, it's focus, so on.
List number two, I now refer to thatas the marginal utility list.
If you're in an environment where you'renot actually having impact,If all the same stuff wouldhappen with or without you,then you have to questionwhy you're there.
But list number three actually ended upbeing the most important,and I call that list purpose.
You could also, sometimespeople refer to itas a tombstone test.
Only work on things that youwant to have on your tombstone.
I think that's a little morbid,so I like to use the word purpose instead.
But one of my lessons was,I think, no matter what you work on,whether it's a small risky start up,or what seems like a big, stable company,you'll have moments of lack of confidence,and you'll see challengesthat may not seemlike ones you can overcome.
And the things that getyou through those periodsare your sense of purpose.
So when you're starting and figuring outwhere you want to sit,I think picking thingswhere you feel that connection to purpose,I think is really important.
Alright, that's number two.
Number three.
Let's talk about theses.
So, I'm going to talk a little bit abouthow I ended up at YouTube.
First off, I just wantedto set some contextof what it felt like when I got there.
So, these were some of the headlinesthat my mom would send me, as I joined.
Are you sure you're doing the right thing?And, like I said earlier,it was far from obviousthat YouTube was going tobe a success at the time.
Now, there's another book I'm assuminga lot people here have read.
It's one called Zero to One.
It has a bunch of reallyinteresting ideas.
There's one I really like,which is this, what important truthdo very few people agree with you on?I thought that was a really good wayto describe a thesis.
It's one way to talk aboutmy story of joining YouTube,it was kind of crazy tojoin YouTube at the time.
But once I had a view on itthat not a lot of people agreed with,it was kind of inevitable.
So, my story actually has to dowith the super bowl of 2008.
I'll come back to that in a second.
So, 2008, I decided Iwanted to leave Microsoft.
I thought I wanted to go start a company,and so I started comingdown to Silicon Valley,meeting different people and so on.
And I happened to get called by this guyJonathan Rosenberg, who'san old friend of mine.
Happened to be running product managementat Google at the time.
And he said, you've got to come inand meet us at Google.
Well, I said, I don't know,I want to go start a company,I don't really want togo be part of a big one.
He said, no, no, no,just come by and meet us.
I said, alright, I'll come by and so,went in, and of course if youthink Google was exciting now,it was incredibly exciting in 2008.
And everybody's pitchwas really out there.
Sergei had his set ofthings he was working on,Eric has his set ofthings he's working on.
Vic had just joined and he wasdoing a bunch of new things,and so on, but all of them werekind of all over the place.
And the last meeting of the day,I get together with Jonathan again.
He said, what did you think?I said, I don't know, theseall seem kind of crazy ideas,but I think I still wantto go do my startup.
He said, no, no, you don't understand.
John's not speaking in this class, is he?He's actually a really goodspeaker for things like this,but Jonathan says things,I'd say, directly.
Or another way to put itis, sometimes crassly.
He said, you're totally missing the point.
He said, Google is, at its heart,not about Chrome and Android,and all these other things.
Google's an advertising company,and all the money andadvertising seems to goto all these stupid TV ads,and nobody even watches those TV ads.
And used a bunch of words I didn't use.
So I had never bought orsold an ad in my life,I knew nothing about advertising.
So, he said all that,and it was actually all surprising to me.
I had no idea.
In retrospect, it's kind of obvious,all the money and advertisinggoes to television ads.
It was kind of obvious.
But for me, I didn't know any of that.
So, I get on a plane,I leave his office and get on a plane,and I start thinking about what he said.
And this happened to be just a coupleweeks after the super bowl.
I don't if people remember the super bowl,but it was actually a pretty iconic one,if any Patriots fans are here, I'm sorry.
I started thinking about the superbowl,and we tend to throw aparty for every super bowl,a bunch of our friends would come over,we'd all watch together.
And I was thinking, hesaid that nobody watchesthose stupid TV ads,and yet that one day,for those three hours,we watched every single ad.
In fact, I remembered many times,when people had said,hey, could you rewind itso we could see that ad again?And so I took out a sheet ofpaper and I wrote at the top,what would it take to make televisionfeel like the super bowl every day?What's different about that day?And how could recreate thatexperience every single day?So I wrote down a series of ideas,went home, went to sleep.
Woke up the next morning,looked at that set of ideas,looked at my list of startup ideas,and said, ah, I don't knowanything about advertising.
Let somebody else do that.
And so I write Jonathan and said,I don't think Google's for me,thank you very much for hosting me.
By the way, you mentioned something,I had a few ideas for you.
Whenever you want, I'mhappy to give them to you.
I'm sure you already thought of them.
Have them call me back.
And I walked him throughsome of those ideas,and he said, you maythink they're obvious,but they're definitely not obvious here.
We have nobody workingon anything like that,so if you really want to come do that,you should come do it.
Through a series of conversationshe convinced me to give upon starting this companyand through that, I endedup working on YouTube.
Now, those set of ideas becamesomething called TrueView.
The basic idea was really simple.
The idea was, you should puta skip button on all the ads,that's what the user sees.
That insight by itself,it's sort of not enough.
The core of it was the idea that the wayto change advertising,especially video advertising,was to change the incentives.
And the reason I feltthat the super bowl adswere so much better thanthe rest of the year,was that the incentives were different.
For a bunch of other reasonswe can talk about later,if people want to hear about them.
What we want to do isrecreate that experienceall year round.
And so the idea was puta skip button on ads,but also don't chargeadvertisers if people skip them.
And what that did, was it created acompletely different set of incentives.
Now, YouTube had nointerest in showing an adthat people wanted to skip,and the advertisers had tobuild better and better adsif they actually wantedthem to get watched.
It was completely counter intuitive.
Jonathan wasn't underestimating it,nobody was working on it,and nobody believed in it,in fact, they were incrediblynegatively predisposed to it.
I got in front of a sales teamin a room kind of like this,and they kind of tore me to shreds.
They said, are you crazy?You're going to put a skip button on ads?All you're going to dois erode all the revenue,while everybody skips their ads.
Thankfully it was the right insight,and ended up working,and now TrueView's amultibillion dollar business,and the metric we mostly focused onwas revenue per hour,for an hour of viewership of YouTube,versus an hour ofviewership of television.
How did it compare?And by the time I left it was about evenbetween cable television and YouTube,which is a pretty amazingthing to think about,with the set of skippable ads.
But one of the lessons I learned from thatis sort of back to the statement.
Peter wrote this with a viewtowards starting a company.
I think the same statement appliesas you're scaling a company as well.
In that, the most interesting innovationswhen you look hard at a problemand you come out generallywith very simple insights.
Those simple insights willoften take a lot of time,and TrueView took us almostthree years to get out,much less to get to scale.
But the core of really making progressis often finding those insightsand really sticking by them.
So as you think about scalingand what you're working on,a lot of the sameprinciples for how you startapply as you scale as well.
Alright, number four.
Metrics.
Yeah?- What were some ofthings that Jonathan didto convince you?- The question was what didJonathan do to convince me?Do you want to take abunch of questions now,or do you want me to wait?Okay, it's your class, you can decide.
What are the thingsJonathan did to convince me?I think mostly he fed myinterest in solving this problem.
Some piece of it was confidence in myself,and I walked into it saying I don't knowanything about this space,and he gave me all the examples of allthe people that have been successfulin this space without knowing it,and why he would rather have someone thatdoesn't know it buthas an interesting ideafor it than otherwise,and the other half of itwas probably confidence and being ableto do it in a big organization.
And so, he ended up handing me a teamof people that were sort of cordoned off.
And then actually turning itinto YouTube happened later.
We started in a slightly different space.
Actually, that project ended up becominga thing called Chromecast,those little dongles thatsit in the back of the TVs.
But he sort of addressedboth those things.
Alright, so let's talkabout metrics a bit.
Now, and why metrics matter.
And so for this story,it's going to sort offast forward time a bitto the 2011, 2012 period.
Now, I call this thewandering period for YouTube.
If you think about 2008 to 2010,we kind of had a fire under our ass.
It was very, very clearthat not only did the worldthink we were going to fail,that Google thought we were going to fail.
It was incredibly motivatingto get through that process,but now we hit 2011, 2012,we hit a lot of our goals,we've now done a bunch of celebrations.
We were well passed thepoint of sustainability.
Nobody was talking aboutshutting us down anymore.
And all of a sudden, pace slowed.
And it wasn't very clearhow to get it back.
That sort of manifestsitself In a lot of ways.
I think one observation was,we had no real competitors,and I've managed to work on businessesof lots of different types.
Ones in spaces that areincredibly competitive,and ones in spaces that are not.
Ones where you're the leader,ones where you're the follower.
I think everybody thinksthat it's much betterto be the leader and be number one,or clear number one in a market.
I tell you, there's a lot ofdownsides to that as well.
One of the biggest is,you sort of lose your sense of direction.
You lose your sense ofpace, of motivation.
It's actually incrediblymotivating to be number two,to a fast-moving number one.
And we were feeling that.
And so, we were discussingwhat to do about it.
And two stories came upthat I thought I'd sharebefore I tell you what we did about it.
So number one,oh, I'll come back tothat guy in a second.
So, number one was Coca-Cola.
So there's this wholestory about Coca-Cola,that they were having a strategy meetingand somebody asked, how long are we goingto keep going back and forth on,we're 51 percent share versus Pepsi,and 49 percent or whatever.
Whatever that is, it just doesn't seemlike this is ever going to go anywhere.
And somebody said, maybewe're looking at it wrong,maybe we should measure Cokeas percentage of the stomach.
And by that measure, it's avery small percentage share.
And that led to Coke investing inall these other businesses,and now they sell water and lemonade,and all these other things.
And so that was one kindof interesting thingsitting in our head is,maybe YouTube is the clear number one,but maybe we're framing the market wrong.
The other one was a storyof this guy, this guynamed Ben Hunt-Davis.
So, he was on the British rowing team,and in the late 90sthis team got together,and this is a pretty famous story as well,you can look him up.
Got together and decided thatthey were going to fix things.
So this rowing team, in Britain,and rowing is pretty popular there,hadn't won a title in many, many years.
The olympics or any of theworldwide championships, and so on.
And so they got togetherand they made this decisionthat they would make everydecision with a single question.
And that question was, willit make the boat go faster?And they're going to sit down and say,should person A or person Bbe in the back of the boat?They would say, well, all that matters is,will it make the boat go faster?They'd say, where should we go to dinner?At this restaurant or that restaurant?They'd say, well, it doesn'tmatter for any reasonother than, will itmake the boat go faster?They tried to apply this theory,and it has a happy ending,they ended up winning.
But these two thoughts, these two storiesreally stuck in our heads as wethought about what to do.
And what we ended up doing hassomething to do with a billion,which is why that guy's up there.
We got together at ourYouTube leadership offsite,and we announced two things.
So, number one, we announceda single unifying metric.
We said, from now on, our version of"will it make the boat go faster"is going to be watch time.
We're going to makeevery decision based onwhether or not it's goingto increase watch time.
I'll come back to why that'simportant in a second.
And secondly, we set a goal.
And we said, our goal as ateam is to get to a billionhours a day of watch time.
We put a time frame on the goal,but we didn't announce that publicly,so I won't talk about that here.
We said we're going to get to a billionhours a day of watch time.
I know that probably is ahard number to understand,so I'll give a little bit of context.
At the time we weredoing about a 100 millionhours a day of watch time,so it's sort of ten X morethan where we were at.
Some of the comparables at the time,Google was in roughly the same ballpark,but it's kind of a dumb metric for Google,because the whole point of Googleis get on and off thesite as fast as possible.
There was no other Googleproperty even close.
So, we were by far the largest at Google.
In fact, in the rest of the internet,the only property that hadmore than us was Facebook,and Facebook had about doublethat amount of watch time, at the time.
And so we set this goal,and said these are someof the comperables.
But the way to think about it is thattelevision at the time was aboutfive and a half billionhours a day of watch time,so if YouTube was about 100 million,television's about five anda half billon hours a day.
And so we said, if we'resuccessful at this goal,and getting to a billionhours a day seemed crazy,we would still only be20 percent of television.
So it's sort of our versionof one percent of the stomach.
So a few things about the goals,first off it was crazy.
My head of data science got up and,well, before we announced,and then after we announced,and told me I was crazy, saidit's never going to happen.
Certainly not in the timeframe I had suggested,and maybe not ever.
There was, you know,a bunch of very interesting implications.
You know, for us to hit that goalit would mean every team doing somethingcompletely differently.
Just to give one example, at the timeYouTube streams a lot of,obviously streams a lot of video,uses up a lot of the internet's bandwidth.
At the time, we wereusing about 20 percentof the internet's bandwidth.
It's a little bit hard tomeasure internet's bandwidth,but that was our closest approximation.
In order to hit thisgoal based on the pacethat the internet was growing,the pace that YouTube would haveto grow to hit this goal,the net impact would bethat we'd be streaming,at a billion hours aday, we'd be streamingroughly double the amount of capacityof the total internet, at the time.
So, the networking teamhad to get to work.
And we kind of went through every teamand described what this goalwould mean for everyone.
Now, so we made these two announcements.
Watch time is going to beour single clarifying metric,and we're going to get to a billionhours a day of watch time.
A couple things happenedout of that announcement.
Number one, it greatlyclarified decision making.
All of a sudden, wewould sit down in reviewsand we'd argue about,I think you'll see this asyou scale your businesses,one of the characteristicsof every business these daysis that you have tons and tons of data.
And so you sit down and review,and you'd say, should we do A or B?And you say, well, thisis what it does to views,and this is what it does to revenue,this is what it does to profit,this is what it does to content creators,is what does this contentcreator versus that one,or this group of users versus that one,and you could argue about it forever.
And what it meant was,lots of lack of clarityin decision making.
One good example about itI like to ask people is,why do you think YouTube had a reputationfor being a place for short form video?The restrictions on uploading onlyten minute long videos on YouTubewere long gone at that point,and yet YouTube still had that reputation.
And the answer was very simple,we had trained every algorithmto optimize for views, not watch time.
And so we would get thecreators and they'd say,oh, I built this greatone hour documentary,and they cut it up intofive minute sections,because I wanted 20 views on it, not, uh.
I wanted 12 views onit instead of just one.
And so we had to retrain ourselves,we had to retrain the marketplace,and change how we thoughtabout those incentives.
The other thing that happened wasit completely changed pace.
And that mission got embeddedin every person in the team.
If you walked aroundGoogle and asked peoplewhat YouTube was working on, they'd say,oh, they got that billion anhour thing they're working on.
And you could immediaterecognition from everybody.
And what that meant was,not only did pace increased,people started suggestingbolder initiatives,and all sorts of innovationsstarted happening again.
And you get that feelingthat of a start up again,you get that feeling ofwhat does it feel likewhen you have a goal, whenyou have a competitor.
So, the reason I talk about this one is,I think as you grow you'llsee lots of different metrics.
I think picking a single clarifyingmetric is really, really hard.
I'd argue most of the businesses I've beeninvolved in before or after,actually I've struggled to do this.
So, I don't mean to imply that it's easy.
But the implications ofhaving that are great,both for clarifying decision makingand for helping people understandthe frame of success.
You know, what is theshape and size of successthat you're aiming for.
Alright, number five.
Let's talk about making decisions.
So, one fun questionI like to ask the teamis what makes a good decision?You're going to be in these roles,you're scaling all these businesses,what is a good decision?Typical answers I would hear back area good decision is onethat's made quickly.
That's probably the most common one.
Another would be, a good decision is onethat's made with all theright peoples' input.
My view of it is actuallyneither of those questionsare a very good one forwhether it's a good decision.
I think there's a singlequestion for whetheryou've made your decisions, and that is,did that decision stick?That's what the duct tape is for.
It's the best metaphorI could come up with.
So, decisions that stick.
So, I wanted to tell a story,this is from the earlydays of my time at YouTube.
So this is in the 2008, 2009 period.
One of the productmanagers had a suggestion,said I think we should linkout to other video websites.
And the typical exampleis you come to YouTube,this is back in that time frame,you come to YouTube and yousearch for Modern Family,which is a popular showat the time, still is.
And on YouTube you get a bunch of garbage,and if you went to Google you'd get linksto watch Modern Family,on other properties.
You get it on ABC, you getit on Hulu, wherever else.
And this person'sargument was really simpleand compelling, it says,hey, we're YouTube,we're owned by this company called Google.
Our job is to give people answers,we should give them theanswer they're asking for.
So they come to us and say,where do I watch Modern Family?We should tell them,and we should direct them to those places.
It's a pretty compelling argument.
Of course, we didn't end up doing it,which I think everybody knows.
Let me explain why.
So, there were a bunch ofbusiness people in the roomwho said, oh, if you do that it's goingto confuse our content partnershipsin all these different ways,and those people were mostly ignored.
That's not how we madethose kinds of decisions.
But then somebody broughtup this different argument.
They said, hey, let's use the analogy ofAmazon and Google product search.
By any sort of logical conclusionGoogle product search shouldhave kicked Amazon's butt.
Google product search isa full superset of Amazon,so why would you ever go toAmazon and look for a productwhen you could come toGoogle product searchand find everything on Amazon,and everything everywhereelse on the internet?It seems like a really sound thesis,it was completely wrong.
Why is that?And in fact, you couldapply the same argumentto Google video, and YouTube,and the fact that Googlehad to go purchase YouTube,when they had a great Google Videoproperty is telling as well.
Same pattern, Google Video searchindexed all of YouTube,so it had everything on YouTube,plus the rest of the internet.
But the net impact wasthat the narrower property actually won.
And we came to this conclusionthat in certain markets consistencybeats comprehensiveness.
And you know, in Amazon'scase that's easy to describe.
Why do you go to Amazon insteadof elsewhere on the internet?Well, you know you geta consistent experiencefor buying a product, youunderstand how the reviews work,you know shipping works,you know how returns work.
All of those thingsactually trump the factthat they might be missing something.
And basically the same thingwas happening in the video space,and we believe that was going to continue.
Probably a separatediscussion about whetherthis applies to ourmarket, all markets or not,but we were quite convincedthat it applied to video.
So, we made the decision,and we didn't addexternal links to YouTube.
Now, the importance of that story is,of course the decision stuck,because there's still notthose links on YouTube,but the real importance of that storyis the implications ithad on future decisions.
So, as an example, thenext thing that happenedwas we and at the time we had a bunch ofembedded video players on YouTube.
We went and pulled all of those off.
The next thing after that was,the team came to us and said,we'd like to remove an option.
At the time we were giving video uploadersthe option to decide whether videoswere shown on mobile devices or not.
We said, we'd like to remove that option.
If we're willing to sacrificethe size of our corpusin order to have a moreconsistence experience,then shouldn't the same principle apply?We should be willing totake the percent of peoplethat don't want theirvideos on every device,and say you can go host somewhere else.
Similarly, we did thesame thing on interface.
At the time, YouTube, the only propertywe built for YouTube wasactually the web page.
Every other YouTube experiencewas built by that manufacturer.
So, the Xbox team built their experience,and each of the TV manufacturersbuilt their experience,and you know Apple builttheir experience, and so on.
The Apple the one is probably the onethat's been talked about the most.
We had to go through avery tough negotiationsince Apple had been building the YouTubeexperience since the very first iPhone.
And pulling it off, thatmeant a lot of implications,including not being defaultinstalled on the iPhone,which seemed crazy at the time.
But we went and madethat decision as well.
So, we'd rather have aconsistent experienceacross all devices, andwe'd sacrifice distributionin order to do it.
So, the reason I mentioned is,you'll find yourself in these roles,and you'll make thousandsof different decisions.
You'll make them all the time.
And it's often hard to figure out,what are good decisions?And my main lesson was,the best decision is not only the onethat gets made quickly and so on,but rather the one that sticks.
That makes it easier tomake the next 10 decisions,or in the very best case,it actually obviates the needfor the next ten decisions,because everybody alreadyunderstands the principleof what you're trying to get done.
Alright, number six, ecosystems.
Anyone know who this guy is?Alright, a little hint,his name is Baauer.
Now, does anybody know who this guy is?Alright, somebody knew.
So, he's one of those guys.
The song behind one of those guys.
I'm going to turn that off,because that's disturbing.
So, I want to talk a littlebit about ecosystems.
In particular, I'm going totalk about the music ecosystem.
So, the music ecosystem and YouTubehave a very symbiotic relationship.
The music industry really needs YouTube.
If you go look at a bunchof different reports,Nielsen will tell you thatpeople under a certain agetend to use YouTube for musicmore than terrestrial radio.
So, the music industryhas very much alignedwith figuring out how tomake this YouTube thing work.
The same was true in reverse for YouTube,music is a very popular genre.
But even more importantly,if you upload a video toYouTube that has music in it,we would license that on your behalf,and share the revenue backwith the music labels.
So, that meant not only did we have todeal with Taylor Swift's music video,we had to deal with thebirthday party videothat had Taylor Swift in the background.
So, this was a really importantsymbiotic relationship.
Which meant that negotiationswere always really tough,and they would happen aboutevery three or four years.
So, 2011 we were going throughour set of negotiationswith the music labels,spend an all day sessiontalking through lots of different things,and then afterwards wewent out for drinks.
And I happened to be sitting next toone of the other label executives,and I asked him this question.
I said, I just want to know,we just came out of a daylong very adversarial meeting.
I said, when is that tone going to change?And the way I phrased the question was,when is it going to be the casethat your relationship with YouTubeand your ability to besuccessful on YouTubeactually helps you win clients?The way a label works is,they have to convinceartists to join their label.
Generally and historically the waythey used to convince them was, hey,we have relationships withall the record stores.
And then over time, it became,we have a relationshipwith all the radio DJs.
And I wanted to know,when it's going to bethe case that you say, youshould be signed by me,because I know how to makeyou successful on YouTube?And I threw out some hypotheses,I said, is it going to be likea certain amount of revenue?A certain percentageof an artists' revenuehas to come from YouTube.
Is it going to be of acertain amount of viewership,like that it has to reach a certain scale?And, he kind of laughed and said,no, no, no, it's not any of those things.
He said, you probably don'twant to know the answer.
I said, no, I want to know the answer.
He said, I'll tell you, it's one thing.
The revenue piece is notreally that importantbecause one of the secretsof the music industryis that most of the moneyis actually not made onany of these distribution channels,it's mostly made in touring.
So most of these artistsare not that motivatedby the revenue comingout of these channels.
And viewerships are similarly,they just don't think that way.
But there's thing thatthey are obsessed with.
Every artist you canthink of is obsessed withwhere they stand on the Billboard charts.
And, the revenue goes up or down,Scott, this guy was telling me,I never got a call from anybody,but if an artist drops from number twoto number four on the charts,he's on the phone immediately.
What are you doing to fix this?And I said oh, boy, that'skind of interesting.
So we go, go home, go to bed.
Wake up, say, get togetherwith the team and said,so what are we going todo with this negotiationto propose this idea?I said, what would it takefor Billboard to actually useYouTube data as a signal in its rankings?And so we asked, hasanybody called Billboard?Nope, nobody thought to call Billboard.
So, I said alright.
Well, maybe we should call Billboard.
Maybe they'll negotiate adeal with us and let us do it.
So we call Billboard, andnot surprising in retrospect,although surprisingly to us at the time,they were super excited about it.
They said, of course we'd like to do it.
We like to report on whatever's popular,YouTube seems to be wherepeople are listening to music.
We'd be happy to do it.
And they said, what do you wantto charge us for your data?And we said, are you kidding?We thought we'd have to payyou to give you the data.
And they said, no, no, no, okay, fine.
So we decided to do it for free,and we're going to send them all the data.
So we start this projectto send them all the data.
Actually their biggest question was,how the hell are we goingto deal with all that data?So, they wanted us to synthesize itin a whole bunch of different ways,to make it manageable for them.
And so we start this project,and then we get a call from themjust a few weeks before launchand they said, hey, we'd liketo launch a little bit early.
And, this was like, fourweeks before the launch.
And we said, in my historyof all these partnershipsI'd never heard of a partnerwanting to launch early,and I said okay, why?And they said, we really can't tell you,but we'd like to launch tomorrow.
And we said, alright, well,you have the data, it's up to you.
Go ahead and launch tomorrow.
And we found out the next day why,and the reason was that this guy, Baauer,ended up at number one on the charts.
This is particularly interesting becauseat the time Billboard had been around for,I think, 57 years.
and they'd never anunknown, unsigned artistdebut at number one.
So he had no label, and he'dnever been on the chart before,and he started at number one.
For us it was particularly interestingbecause if you actually went and lookedat his views on YouTube,none of them were on anything he uploaded.
This is the types of stuff you would see,I guess it's too fuzzy here to see it.
Because people were taking his songand making all these kinds of videos.
And so, that was really interesting to us.
The longterm impactsof that were enormous.
It's still the case thatYouTube has now becomea primary vehicle for musicians,and artists now invest a lot of energyinto their music viewership.
Often at the cost of other things,partially because of a decision we madeto share out data with Billboard.
The lesson here is every businessoperates in an ecosystem.
It doesn't matter how big you are,there's sets of peoplethat you need to rely on.
And it's very easy to presume somethingabout their incentives if you don't ask.
So, what I'd suggest is don't presume,go out, collect the data,ask the real hard questions,and you might find something completelycounter intuitive, like we did here.
Alright, let's talk about values.
Let me switch to my...
Alright, so we're going totalk a bit about values.
As you scale, one of thethings that will matter a lotis your sense of values.
The story I want to tell hereis from September 11th, 2012.
So, September 11th, 2012, we get a callsaying hey, there's been,something terrible happened.
There was an attack onthe US embassy in Libya,and the US ambassadorto Libya, Chris Stevens,had been killed.
And the reason we got the call wasthe world was convinced that it had to dowith this video, that thiswas a series of protestorsthat were protesting a videocalled Innocence of Muslims.
And everyone wanted to know what wewere going to do about it.
Every government, every journalist,everybody wanted to know whatwe were going to do about it.
There were sort of compellingarguments on both sides,there was a series of people whoreally, really wantedto take the video down,because it's just a stupidvideo, just take it down.
If it can help saveeven one person's life.
And there was a lot of growing,every hour we were getting called saying,hey, there's been anotherprotest in a different country,and I've got the same thinghappening now in Yemen,happening in Egypt, and it was kind ofspreading through the region.
And there was a set of arguments that way.
On the other hand,our policy team could findnothing wrong with the video.
They couldn't find any reasonfor us to pull it down,and so they were sort of staunchly arguingthat we should leave it alone,and the next 24 hours were really tough.
And I got probably,I think one of the bestshort term educationspossible on how to think about the lawsacross the world for freedom of speech,hate speech, and incitement of violence.
The intersection of those laws is whatreally had to be figured out in this case.
Now, that impact is, thevideo actually stayed up,except for a few select countries.
But, thankfully it was also determinedthat the video actuallydidn't have anything to dowith the assassination of the ambassador.
Now Hillary Clinton gets togo deal with the rest of that.
Or got to at the time.
Yes, so, let's see.
But the reason I thinkthis is an importantlesson for this group is,these days as these properties andbusinesses get bigger and bigger,we're sort of in an interesting spot wherethe level of impact thesecompanies and productscan have is kind of unprecedented.
I mean, if you think aboutthat situation we were in,we were the last decider.
Whether this thing stayed up or down.
There was no government thatcould force us to do anything,there was no group to go to,there was no judge tomake a real call on it.
We were going to decide, andwe had to be ready to do it.
And I think one of the thingsto think about as you scale,hopefully if you get to thepoint of working at a businessthat has that level of impact,it also comes with an enormousamount of responsibility,and you have to think aboutyour values in advance.
So that by the time you get hit by this,you know you have some framein which to make those decisions.
Alright, I'm going to switchgears and talk to my people.
Go ahead.
- It terms of like, howbodies apply scaling,how do you deal with all the situationswhere for example, going into China,such a huge market opportunitybut they're very tough about howthey want to pull it off,or other countries thathave very differentunderstandings of freedom of speech.
I mean, how can you leave such a hugepart of the business on the table?- So the question was roughlyhow could you leave China on the table?My perspective on that was,well, it was two parts.
One, it wasn't really a choice.
For YouTube in particular,and I think someone else should probablyspeak to the Google piece of that,but for YouTube in particularthere was no choice.
There was no realopportunity to go into China.
I tried many differenttactics of ways to do it,but there just wasn't apractical way to do it.
In my opinion, I would have done it.
And in fact we did launch in a number of,actually through experiences like that,we launched YouTube inall sorts of countrieswhere we didn't reallyagree with quite their wayof doing business ortheir form of government.
Because, you know, the trade.
And the way I would recommend it was,I believe that allowingpeople to express themselves,even small amounts was better thannot being in the region at all.
But for China in particular,it ended up being kind of a moot question.
Alright, let's switchto talking about people.
So, you now pick theright table to sit at,you've figured out the right values,you've figured out the rightthesis you want to invest in.
Now you need a crew,you need a set of people that are actuallygoing to help you get this done.
And so I picked off a few things totalk about in terms ofhow to judge talent,how to work with them yourself,and how to organize them.
So, let's talk firstoff on judging talent.
And so, I'll walk through this frameworkin a second just to introduceit, add some context.
This is framework that wasgiven to me by an old bossfor how to think about comparing people.
Generally framed in the notion of,how do you tell the difference betweensomeone who's senior andsomeone who's junior?We applied this at Google acrossa bunch of different functions.
It's being used for howthe product managementpromotion committees, for example,compare different levelsof product managers.
And generally the questionthere was phrased aswhat's the differencebetween a level threeand a level six product manager?Or a level three and a level six engineer?And those terms, you don't have toworry about the numbers.
Just, you can reframe that as,what does it mean to bea junior product manager,versus a senior productmanager, and so on.
So we talked about at least two axes.
So, one axis that would generallyget referred to is scope.
And we'd say okay, the wayyou should compare people is,junior people would start offand they'd work on features,and then they'd graduallywork on groups of features,and eventually they'd workon areas of a product,and then they'd cover a whole product,and then they'd covermultiple different products,and that's how you shouldjudge junior versus senior,is the scope of the thing thatthey've got ownership for.
We proposed a slightly differentaxis for looking at thiswith an acronym that doesnot make a word at all.
It's PSHE.
It stands for problem,solution, how, execution.
I'll walk it from the bottom up.
So, you start off as a junior employee.
Someone hands you a problem,someone hands you the rough solution,and says this is how we'regoing to solve the problem.
They give you a list ofhow, a list of instructions.
Say what you should do,is you go meet his person,you should assemble this group,you should write this document,and these are the things you have to doin order to implement the solution.
And the job of theperson is to go execute.
Go follow these instructions,and that's the job.
And then gradually that personbecomes a little more senior,and gets handed a problem,and gets handed a solution,but now that person hasto figure out the how.
Figure out who to talk to,how to set up the team,what the cadence shouldbe, whatever that I mean.
And then at the next stage theperson becomes a little more senior,gets handed a problem with no solution,the job of the person is togo figure out the solutionand at some point in that person's career,they're handed a spaceand they have to come backand tell you what the problems are.
And decide where to focus on.
So, this is a progressionwe use to think abouthow to evaluate people a lot.
You could put differentlabels on this axis.
People like to call it leadership.
I like to use the term training wheels.
In fact, the way I like to phrase this isif you were to put the two axis together,as to say, given this person,what's the biggest scope you could handthis person with no training wheels?What amount of support dothey need to get started?There's a couple sort of counterintuitive things about this.
So, one was, the paththat people generally tookin evolving through thesestages generally wasn't linear.
In fact, what generally happened is,early in peoples' career, they would besort of growing by growing scope.
And at some point the curve would turnalmost completely to the other directionand it would be less about the scopeand more about some of the mechanismsabout how they did the job,and then gradually itwould turn back at the top.
And this period in the middle,I call this the trough of disillusionment.
And put it in terms ofa promotion committee,so you're sitting there,you're trying to decideif this level threeperson's a level six person,how do you tell the difference?And the way I would phrase it is,the difference betweena level three personand a level six person hadnothing to do with scope,they could be doing the same job.
It was much more abouthow they did the jobthan the job they did.
Which makes it much,much harder to evaluatehow good a job they're doing.
But this frame of thinkingabout how people growwas very helpful in trying to figure out,and we use this across disciplines.
Trying to figure out whatdoes success really look like,and how do people grow through it?A second tool I want to talk aboutis something we use called Dream Teams.
And this tool, the basicidea here is really simple.
We would take groups of peopleand we'd ask a single question.
The question was,who would you hire first if youwere starting this team from scratch?And we used to call itthe dream team question,and we used to ask in a wholebunch of different ways.
We'd ask managers for their teams,we'd ask peers for peopleon their collective teams,and so on, and try to form a viewon what the dream teams were.
And then we'd take that listand we would generally draw three lines.
So, the first line is, wecall it the awesome bar.
So those are the set of peopleyou sort of build a team around.
At the other end of the spectrum was thewe probably wouldn't havehired this person again bar.
And then there was a middle linethat I called the hiring bar.
Just to explain each one, so the top one--Well, actually, let'sstart at the other end.
The wouldn't hire again bar.
First off, there was noset place to draw that bar,it was entirely qualitative.
You could draw that bar and saythere's nobody underneath that,you could draw the bar and putthe whole team underneath that.
But the exercise was tobe intellectually honestwith how you feel about the team,and there's a set of steps we would takewhen people were under that bar.
I'll come back in just a second.
At the other end of thespectrum was the awesome bar,and that's really where youwant to invest your time.
You take those set of people,you spent your time talking about them,you spend your timemaking sure they feel likethey're valued, make sure that they areworking on challenging things.
We would rotate themthrough teams regularlyto try and make surethat they were gettingexposed to new areas of product,getting challenged in different ways.
The one in the middle, the hiring bar,was sort of interesting too.
It's very natural in an organizationto set your hiring bar at the same placeas the wouldn't hire again bar.
We need somebody to replace Joe,so just get me somebodythat's better than Joe.
And it's a very naturalorganizational instinct to say,or the other way it gets phrased is,well, we hired that person,and this other personseems just about as good,so we should just do the same thing.
And so we would set the hiring bar,and the YouTube hiring committee'sactually had a list of people.
And so it wasn't a list of qualities,so it wasn't they canwrite code this fast,or they can design at thisspeed, or whatever it might,whatever synthetic metricsyou might come up with,we would say, hey, we'vedecided our hiring baris way up here, and asyou evaluate candidates,we'd like you think about these four,five frames of referenceof people we thinkare emblematic of those capabilities.
And there's lots of tactics thereto talk about if people are interested in,but the main lessons Iwanted to express is,you can pick whichever tools you like,if you like those twotools, then go ahead,you could pick different ones.
But thinking about the waysyou're going to judge people.
For example, this way ofjudging has perspective.
There's many leaders whowould pick a very differentset of things that they would order.
This is my perspective on howI think about how people grow,and it was reflected in the team.
And there were leadersthat had a different set,like you could almost expressthat this is my set of values.
And then thinking about how you want tomanage that across your team,and make sure that you'respending your energyon the top of your team.
Not on your bottom.
It's a really hard thing to do,but a very important thing to do.
Go ahead, what's your question?- Yeah, I just wanted to make sure Iwas going to say it correctly,But who would you hire first,and the three lines thing,are they completely separate exercises?- No, no, same exercise.
You build your list, yousay who would I hire first,and you sort of end up withan ordered list of people,and then you draw lines within that list.
- And this was always like,at the mid point or the endof a project, presumably?- So, we would do it every quarter,and so we do it on a time cadence.
But sorry, I should be reading questions.
The question was, what'sthe cadence for doing it?We would do it every quarter.
I actually think that doing itmore frequently is actually better,and if you have theright tools for doing it,you can do it pretty quickly.
Go ahead, question there.
The question was, do youfire anyone based on it?So, I was in the luxuriousposition of being at a companythat people fought like crazy to get into.
So, generally speaking,people that were below that bottom line,once they were told thatthey were below that line,they generally made the right choices.
This is not a rule Iwould apply everywhere,I've been in situationswhere that's not true,but that was sort of thenotion of how it worked for us,but in some cases, absolutely, we did.
I think building that muscle,and to how you thinkabout your top and bottomas a part of making sure,the only way to make sureyou have a healthy teamis to treat your topvery well and make surethat your bottom doesn'tstay along for very long.
Alright, let's talk about your roles.
Now, you're leading this team.
There's lots of differentthings to talk aboutas your role changes,you become a manager.
You become a manager,managers at some point,you're running a bunch of functions,many functions where you don't evenactually understand what they do.
Lots of different thingsto talk about there.
I picked one to talk about,which is how to be a bad manager.
And I'll come back to why that impliessomething about being a good manager.
I think there's threeways to be a bad manager.
So, one is the one that'smost typically talked about,it's being a micromanager.
That's sort of an easyexample to understand,is somebody comes to you with a problem,and you take the problemfrom them and you solve it.
The downsides to that Ithink are well understood.
I think another one is, another pattern,is what I call dictators.
And you tend to see this a lotmore in sales organizations.
The story I would tell is,you're the sales leaderis sitting down with their sales rep,and the sales rep comes in and says,alright, I had a ten milliondollar quota this quarter,but I just wanted to let you knowI had two major customers in that quota.
And one of them, thecompany went bankrupt,and the other one, the headof the company passed away.
And I just wanted to let you know.
And the sales manager sits there and says,I kind of blanked out for a secondand I may not have heard everything,but are you still bringing me10 million dollars this quota, or not?And that's sort of the spiritof those types of leaders.
There's a third one, I callthese the overempathizers.
And this person is slightlydifferent than either of those.
So, that person, employeebrings a problem,and a manager sits,listens very carefully,doesn't take the problem from them,but spends all their energy tryingto debug the problem with them.
Says, oh, tell me more about it,maybe it's because of this,maybe it's because of that, and so on.
And that may seem like areally good thing to do,but one of the implications of thatis now you've taken the responsibility offof that person and onto yourself.
The main lesson of this is,I think everybody hastheir natural tendency.
And you probably all knowwhere your natural tendency is.
Mine, by the way, is at the top.
In any team I work withI make sure they know that.
That's where I end up inif pushed.
And I think being a good manageris actually not about beingany one of these things.
It's about being able to be these thingswhen you need to be.
And sometimes the right thingto do is to be a dictator,sometimes the right thingto do is be a micromanager,sometimes the rightthing to do is empathize.
But understanding whichone you naturally areand stretching yourself in the other onesis really important.
And one way to think about it is,the goal of the manageris set inspiring goals,coach when needed,and hold people accountable.
And those can often beat odds with each other.
Alright, one last one.
I'm going to talk a little bitabout how to organize teams.
And again, lots of different thingswe could talk about there.
How do you organize functions,how do you organize projects?How do you move people around, do you not?So, on this one principle that I found,we used all the time.
And it's told with a story.
So the story is, this guy walksup to these three workers,and asks them what they're working on.
And the first one says,hey, I'm responsible for taking bricks.
I take bricks from over thereand I put them over there.
And then he goes to the second guy,and says, what are you working on?And he says, oh, I'mresponsible for laying bricks.
I take those bricks and I put the mortarand I stick them on top of each other,and that's what I do.
And he goes to the third guyand he says, what are you responsible for?And he says, well, I'mhere to build a cathedral.
And this difference Ithink is really criticalas you think about how youset up projects and teams.
And hopefully the lesson is clear,people that are working on a cathedral,sort of similar to the purpose stuffwe talked about at the beginning.
The people working on a cathedralhave a higher sense of purpose,better set of perspectiveon what they're doing,and so on.
So, when we first talkedabout this at YouTube,we talked about it in offsite,and someone asked for an example.
So just to give you the example,we asked one of the managersin the team to stand up.
This manager stands up,and I said, so, explain to everybody elsewhat you're responsible for.
And that person said, oh, Irun the related videos team.
I said, okay, what'sthe related videos team?Well, our job is, when youcome to watch a YouTube video,there's all those videos like onthe right side of the watch page.
Our job is to pick which videos go there.
And I asked everybody around the room,which did that sound like?Did that sound like laying bricksor did that sound likebuilding a cathedral?And that led to a conversationwhere that team's goal wasreframed and broadened,and we changed how we thoughtabout that experience.
But the main lesson I would give is,as you think about organizing teams,and setting up goals,what's one of the hardest things to do,but the question to be asked is,when you look at each person,and look at their team,and you kind of work yourway through the organization,is how connected do peoplefeel to a cathedral,and do they describe it as a cathedral,or do they describe it as laying bricks?So those are 10 hopefullyinteresting stories,some about how to pick thingsthat have high tailwinds,pick things where you havea high sense of purpose.
As you execute, look for those theses.
Look for that thing that you believethat not everybody else believes.
Try to find that unifying metric.
Try to make decisions that stick.
Look hard at your ecosystem to findcounter intuitive patterns.
Think about your valuesbefore they're tested.
And as you're building up your team,think about the ways youwant think about talent,and measure them.
What type of manager you are,and how to structure yourteam around cathedrals,not just projects.
- So, can you say a little bit more aboutwhat that, you sort of mentioned,there were two main periods of YouTube.
So there was the period of,there was a fire lit under youand everyone thoughtyou were going to fail,and then there was the sortof period of wandering,sort of followed after that.
Describe what things were likeat the beginning of theperiod, you were going to fail?How big was the team?What was the area of focus?And how close were you stillto the founding essenceof what YouTube was?- So, just to be clear,I would probably describe YouTube as,probably say there's probably four phases.
So, there was the founding phasethat was mainly beforeYouTube was purchased.
And it was before I joined the team,so I know a lot of it only secondhand.
After the purchase, the dynamics changed.
And then there was the what Icalled the wandering period,and then I think the phasethat YouTube is currently in,which I would call acceleration.
Actually, I think that seemsto be going incredibly well.
So, I can talk about thesort of the last three,the first one's a little bit different.
And YouTube is a very unique case,I don't know that a lotof business go throughthis kind of dip.
But YouTube got, on one sidewas an enormous success.
Bought for 1.6 billiondollars at the time.
It seemed like a lot of money before awhole bunch of otheracquisitions got done.
And was a very propertypopular property, and so on.
But we were, our backs were to the wall.
It was a very common conversation of,could this be shut down,could it be spun out?It wasn't a forgone conclusionthat YouTube would be allowed to continue.
I'll tell one story tohelp people understandwhat that felt like.
So, we were, let's say this was,it must have been likeOctober 18th or 19th,it was three or four days aftermy second daughter was born.
I go into work, which mywife was not happy about,and meet with PatrickPichette, who's our CFO.
At the time, this was sortof my first meeting with him.
You know, I'd joined YouTubeabout a month earlierand he had three charts in front of him.
And he was totally ready for this meeting.
And one was, here's how much moneyYouTube is losing per year,and it was a lot of money.
The second one was, here's how much moneyYouTube is losing per view.
And that was not,that was enough money.
And then there was a third one that said,here's what views are doing.
And views weren't doing this,they were doing this.
He said, this is the worstbusiness on the planet.
There's been a lot of talk recently aboutnegative gross marginbusinesses, and so on.
We were like the worst.
So, I would say, on one side,it was incredibly focusing.
Everybody completely understoodwhat needed to be done,which meant across all functions.
Obviously the monetization teamwas under a lot ofpressure to find some wayto create an ad unit, and someof the stuff I talked about.
But it also meant things like,the networking team was shavingcosts as fast as possible,and the content team wasconstantly renegotiatingand rethinking how we dealtwith content licenses,and the viewership team was thinking aboutcreative ways to rebuild the experiencearound this goal.
So it was very clarifying, so I would sayat that time, thesentiment would be intense,it would be intense, butyou'd make resolutions fast,and you'd go do them.
I'd say that wandering period was tough,because it, all of a sudden,it was kind of like we went from thistotally nimble, small company,to feeling very big all of a sudden.
How do you pick betweendoing project A or project B?Well, they're all goingto move us forward,they all seem good, soeverything gets funded,everything kind of moves.
Which kind of means nothing moves.
It meant all the projectskind of intersect each other.
All of sudden people are working on thingsthat don't have alignment.
One of the ways I like to describe it is,in a healthy dynamic,somebody brings up a new project,and says, hey, I want do,you're working on A, I'm working on B,here's project C.
In a healthy dynamic,both A and B first off,they're too busy to even do it.
So, a healthy dynamicis, we're already racing,Johnathan Rosenberg usedto do the analogy of,I'm going to drop this ballin the middle of table.
In a healthy dynamic, theball should drop on the floor.
I should have to force peopleto go do the new thing.
And then when somebody picks it up,everybody is super supportive,because that's the natureof that business he's going.
And I would say, fortemporarily, that changed.
And I think we managed to change it back,but it wasn't easy.
- So, in that period at the beginning,when you were making the big pushto get the costs down, get the revenue up,and so forth, and turn YouTubeinto an effective business.
What were key org changes you had to make,in order to make that successful?- I mean, I would say the organizationactually didn't matter a ton.
I think the people mattered a lot.
And, so I would say, wewere pretty active on that.
The tolerance for a notstellar person in a rolewas incredibly low then.
We moved people out ofpositions incredibly fast,just because we couldn't,we didn't have time to wait to seeif something was going to work out.
Because clearly that personwasn't working, we move fast.
And on the other side,we pulled in the best helpfrom anywhere we could.
And sometimes that was,sometimes actually, oneinteresting story is,so I told the story aboutTrueView's ad format,I was mentioning it took a long timeto actually get it shipped.
It took almost threeyears to get it shipped.
So a lot of actually whatwe did to write the shipwas done without it.
That project actually got shelved,I couldn't get it through the sales team.
And so we didn't launch it for a while,and there was a guy on the sales teamwho really, really wantedto be a product manager.
And was really smart, and sowe decided to give him a shot,but we couldn't move him over.
And, so I said, here's the deal.
I'll let you do it in your 20 percent timeas long as you keepdoing your current job,and you have to take this projectthat's gotten shelved and Ireally want to see it work.
And so I think we got really creativeabout how to get the rightpeople in the right problems,because you're sort ofmotivated the right direction.
- You mentioned earlierwhen you were talking,about how valuable havingthat single target metricwas for the entire organization.
What's the process you put in placefor company communications?I mean, one of thingswhich has really changesas the company sort of growsis the way in which you talkto the staff as a whole.
So, that very clarifyingmeeting you had with the CFO,how did you communicate thateffectively to the team?And how is that differentthan in the future,when you came up with that one metric?- So I'm a big believer in,and there's a lot of differentcommunication forums,and we used to do a lot of the onesI think these days are pretty standard,cross companies would do the TGIFs,you do Q and As and so on.
I was a pretty big believer in writinga weekly mail.
And, actually as a general sentiment,I think I didn't talk about here,but I'd say, leadersthat write things down.
There's a lot of reasons towrite or not write things down,but I think leadersthat write things down,tend to deal with lesscommunication issues.
I would say, to say it differently,writing it down generallymeant you had to clairfyyour thought process in acompletely different way.
It's very easy to leave a meetingwith okay, we decided this thing,everyone go tell your teamto go tell their team,and they'll tell their teams,and first off, everybodydoesn't quite knowwhat was decided, and so,if you didn't write itdown, and then suddenlyyou're going to playthis game of telephone.
Of you know, I wasn't there,but the person who was there told,said that this thing happened, and so on.
So, I used to send aweekly YouTube all mail,that would to go to everyone.
Robert would do something very similar.
And we would lay out,some of it was updates.
Here's things that happened.
And generally we would tryto pick something like,we made this hard decision,and we want people to understand why.
And I think that was pretty effectiveat communicating things like that.
He had a question.
- So, let's actually go ahead, please.
- As you mentioned earlier in the talkthat Sal Kahn couldn'thave been able to createhis business three or four years earlier,how do you think about timing in termsof product and business biz?- So I'm just repeating it so,Sal Kahn wouldn't have been able tomake his business happenthree or four years earlier.
How do you think about timingwhen it comes to this space?- Timing was actually one ofthe stories I ended up cutting.
I think timing is critically important,and unfortunately it'sreally hard to predict.
It's kind of related to thetailwind point I talked about.
YouTube was far from the firstat trying to make online video work.
I've had many arguments with Mark Cubanabout whether he was the first or not.
- I bet I know what he thinks.
(laughing)- The timing is kind of everything.
And unfortunately, you don't actually knowif you're at the righttime until afterwards.
I don't know that there'sa prescription there.
But certainly I think, once you feel it,maybe that's related to the insightof what do you believe thatother people don't believe.
Sometimes that is entirely about timing,that you believe the right set of thingsare coming together to make it happenI mean, why was YouTubetiming at the right time?There's a lot of things thathappened at that moment.
I mean, networks were finally big enoughto be able to stream video.
We were finally putting a phone,sorry, a camera in everyone's pocket.
So the amount of creation that washappening was completely different.
And then there's a bunch of things in thefunding and investment environmentthat made it easier to imaginetaking something thatwas actually a prettycapital intensive bet thatactually made that work.
And there's a whole bunch of thingsthat had to come togetherat the right momentfor that to happen,and a lot of luck comes into it too.
Timing really matters.
- Please.
- So you mentioned at thebeginning of your talk(talking) broadband tocable, to internet video,which has totally shaped the industry.
How do you think virtualreality will change things?- So how do you think that virtual realityis going to play thatits role is the next stepin the transformation of entertainment?- How do I think thatvirtual reality will change?Let's see.
John's in the back,and John and I havetalked about this before.
I think virtual reality right now isa fantastic promise.
I think the timing of it is unclear.
Anybody who's put on an Oculusand gone through one of those demos,you can't help but being wowed.
It is really amazing to see it.
And yet, I think one ofmy lessons from YouTubewas you know, the shift I talked about,with going from broadband,to cable, to internet video.
You can go back to the late90s and you'll find the same.
You can go back earlier andyou'll find very similar ideas.
But the set of thingsthat have to come togetherfor virtual reality to getthere are sort of similar,in terms of the network effects of devicesand content and applications,and all of that comingtogether at the same time.
So, I don't have a guesson when that'll be.
I don't think it's quite yet,but I do think it willbe great when it happens.
- One more question, go ahead.
- Yeah, you talked about wanting to starta company a couple of times.
What made you decide the last time,where it's time to drop it or do it?Did you have the idea,team, all those things?- You had the opportunitya couple of timesto start a company, and you'vefinally gone and done it,so what's changed in thedecision making processfrom when you decidednot to do it in the past?- That's a good question.
So, essentially when I was at YouTubeand people would come to me and say,I want to start a company,I used to ask them two questions.
Generally, as a way todiscourage them, actually.
And my two questions were,do you have an idea youcan't imagine not working on?And do you have a person or teamyou can't imagine not working with?And my view of that way Iwould phrase the question is,if you don't have both,then you shouldn't do it.
And generally that was enoughto dissuade a lot of people.
As it turned out, most peoplehad one or not the other,or sometimes had neither,which I think wasparticularly interesting.
(laughing)I'm not so sure those questionshave led to the right startup,that's like, as a life choice,that's how I think about it.
For me, the simple answer is,I found myself answeringboth those questions as yes,and once you're at that point,I think anyone who's started a companywill kind of describe it the same way.
It's a feeling of like, damn, I'm trapped.
Like, I have to do it.
You can't imagine not doing it,an that's when you have to do it.
And that was the feeling I had,and so I did it.
- So, we're going to break now,because we're right out of time.
- I can stick around, ifpeople want to ask questions.
- That would be awesome,I was going to ask.
So, thank you very much for joining us.
