WEBVTTKind: captionsLanguage: en- Selina was a co-founderof a site called Evite,which those of us who are a little olderprobably perfectly remember.
- [Voiceover] People still use it!- [Selina] Probably not gone.
- Yes, exactly.
And then, helped growTicketmaster City Search,and has been a fundamentalagent of SurveyMonkey,which is very well-knownwithin the Silicon Valley communityas being one of the interesting unicorns,and not as much generally, other than,most people take them, a survey,and expose the survey or not.
And so, we thought there were a bunchof different things that were interstingabout both Selina and theSurveyMonkey's stories.
So we thought this would be a perfect timefor kind this villageinflection set of choices,because one of the things that happens is,when you actually think aboutthese things that are articulatedas rules in Silicon Valley,actually, most of thesethings are patterns.
Most of these things are heuristics,and actually in fact sometimesthat specific break of the pattern,that specific break of a heuristicis the thing that actuallyin fact makes an opportunityfor a unicorn company.
And so, and to that wasone of the things that we,when we were conspiring.
And so, why don't we kick it off with,tell us about how SurveyMonkeydoes before your time,was founded, what the early storyof SurveyMonkey is.
- So, SurveyMonkey hasa pretty interestingand unique start-up story in the sensethat it was one guy, hisname was Ryan Finley,and he worked at a radio station,and the radio station said to him,"Hey, we want to getfeedback from our listeners,"and he thought, "Oh, wait, I can do this!"And he learned to codeand he built out thesurvey fro the listeners.
And as he did that, herealized that there wasthis opportunity beyondjust the single use case.
And so he built SurveyMonkey on the sidewhile sill working at the radio stationand eventually it obviously started.
But right away, sorry, oneof the interesting thingsis right away it was afreemium-based business,before the word "freemium"was actually existing.
And if you'd think about it, it was 1999,it was probably, he wasone of the earliest,if not the earliest modelsof, build a product for free,and then let people upgradefor paying features.
And that is how he started from day one.
And eventually this productstarted making enough money,and he had what he calledthe email bankruptcy,where all his customers were emailing him,and he looked at all the customer support,he couldn't answer everything.
And he turned aroundand he deleted his inboxand called his brother and said,"Hey, can you come helpme with my company?"That was his second hire,which was about four years into it.
And then he decidedthat Wisconsin was coldand so he at that point said,"I want to move to somewhere warmer."Sight unseen, he decidedon Portland, Oregon.
And so part of this interestingpart of this story is,what he actually did wasput a message that said,"My site is down."And this is 2005.
So this is very unusual for a web-company,that's already pulling in,frankly, millions of dollars.
And put the servers on a truckand flew himself.
And then physically chase down the truckbecause it was going to the wrong addresson the other side in Portland.
Got the servers back, put them back up,without realizing thatlike his whole businesswas essentially going to be on the line.
And there in Portland,hired two more developersand about ten morecustomer support people.
And so, fast-forward to an end of 2008and he looked at this business,which, you know, inReid's terminology here,was acting in the sense of,size-wise was a "tribe",but revenue size was already a "village".
And he knew he had reached a pointwhere he had no ideahow to take the company to the next level.
And for a founder to havethat much like prescientof himself is just phenomenal, in my mind.
And so, he basicallyhired essentially a bankerto help him say, "Look, I want essentially"to get some liquidity formyself and, most importantly,"I want to bring in a professional CEO."And that is just suchand unusual thing to do.
And so in April 2009 twoprivate equity firms,so it was two-bay for a venture capital,it was already like themountain of money neededto buy Ryan and his brother out,or to buy a portion of them out.
It was already too big.
And so, you know, Ryan is truly amazing,and is one of the most, isan extremely humble guy.
And one of the thingsthat he was looking forwas a professional CEO that heldthat same culture and ethos.
And so, he, Spectrum Equity,and been capital investedand brought on a gentlemannamed Dave Goldberg,who, I think as many of you probably know,passed unfortunately in May of this year,but just had that same culture and ethosof just being somebody who, you know,was extremely intelligentand extremely humble.
And that is something thatboth Ryan and Dave shared.
But he realized it was timeto bring on a professional CEOand did that, which is pretty interestingfor Silicon Valley.
- And this is essentiallywhere I started this,because obviously Goldy andI were talking about thisand Goldy was sayingwhat he was going to doand I was like, "Oh, really? Portland?"How is this going to work?"And all these sorst of things.
And so, now let's getto how you got to this.
So, Goldy calls you or you connect...
And what does the company look like then?- Right, so, I wasactually working in London,running European Product andTechnology for Ticketmaster.
So, we were in about 11 different markets,I was having, frankly,the time of my life.
I'd done Stanford andBerlin when I was here,and always wanted to go back to Europe.
So I had this opportunityto move to Londonand work in all these different markets.
But, I don't see thatmany women in the room,for the woman in the room,I decided I wanted to start a familyand I was traveling about60 to 70% of the time.
And so, I knew I wanted to take a jobwhere I wasn't traveling as much.
And I was ready for the innovationof Silicon Valley again.
And I ran into Zander,our Chairman of our Board,and he introduced me to Dave.
When Dave first calledme, and this is trueof every single person at SurveyMonkey,when Dave first called us,we thought: surveys?Like, are you kidding me, surveys?But when you start tounderstand the impactof collecting feedback,whether that's this classroomfeedback, hopefully,or whether it's employeefeedback, patient satisfaction.
You start understanding thepower of listening to voicesand what you can do with that data.
And the thing that was amazing about Davewas he had that vision in 2009.
He had that vision and that'sthe same thing that Ryan saw,was how do you take a vision of a companythat has been going for 10 years,but realize you have a businessof essentially data collection?I mean, you're allcomputer scientists, right?You know you can builda form pretty quickly,but how do you take a business, though,that has tremendous scale,think about how to both make it global,but how to build additional value.
So, how do you buildinsights and not just data?And how do you think about providingvalue back to thecustomer on that feedback?And Dave had that vision right from 2009and I just couldn't havebeen more excited about it.
- [Reid] How big was thecompany when you joined?- So it was 19.
I've finally joined in October of 2009,there were 19 people.
There were three engineers and that's it.
The company already had millions of users,tens of millions, and I'lldisclose the exact amount,but tens on millions of revenue.
- [Reid] Your revenueper employee wasn't bad.
- Yeah, and the margin was unbelievable,if you think about that.
And there were three engineers.
there was one, David hiredone tech-house personwhen he realized there was literallyno backup of the database. (Selina laughs)And so, it was very small.
And Dave started bringing in,essentially, various executives.
Tim Maly, this is our CFO,he brought him in coming from Google.
He brought in someone tohelp on international,he brought me in.
So he brought varioussort of executives in,knowing that the businesswas this unique combinationof a small company in people sizeand a scaled company, asomewhat scaled company already.
I mean not LinkedInscale, but somewhat scaledin terms of revenues and traffic.
- So what was the initial plan?You get to a "tribe"with "village" revenue,you have to build to a village,what was your initial, like,oh my gosh, there's somany things to do here.
How did you treat all that?- So, the first bigthing was the platform.
So I'm CS Stanford, so kind of came inon the technology side,and it was this monolithic .NET platformwith literally, you know,HTML from the databaseto the app layer, to the front end.
Like it was sort of sprinkled everywhere.
And these guys have done,though, a fantastic job.
If you think about thefact that two people,two to three people,had really built thisapplication that's scaled.
But it's scaled froma traffic perspective,but not an adding developer perspective.
So the big thing that I had to figure outis how were we going tostart taking advantageof all this business opportunity,but at the same time,we had a platform that we couldn't usefrom a scale perspective.
So, that was the first big decision.
And the decision I made was to split,rather than say we're going to, like,take a bunch of developers,put them in Fiji and go replicate the sitein a different language.
We decided to take, you know,front area of the siteby area of the site.
And think about what are the mostimportant things to do first.
And the first thing we decided was that,given the fact that the business is viraland it's not necessarilylike directly virallike Facebook or LinkedIn,but it's viral in the sense of the factthat there had been no marketing.
Not a penny of search enginemarketing had been spent.
When we asked Ryan whatmarketing he did, he said,"Well, I put a gorilla suit on and I stood"at the back of the Today show."He wasn't on the Today show,he was like in the crowd waving.
That was like what he told uswas the marketing he'd done.
So there had been no--- [Reid] I think it wasliterally gorilla marketing--- Literally! Literally, right?So he had done like basically...
So there's, you know,you want to drive search,but you knew there was thisviral component of the business.
And so the earlier we can startthat virality in more markets,the better long-term we would be.
So the first thing wedecide we'd want to dois quickly globalize the platform.
So we were able to usea third-party proxy,that did some of the translationto try to quickly withinsix months get out the doorabout five to ten languages.
And the main thing we actuallyneeded to write-rewritewas the billing system.
And the billings first.
The billing system basically had...
If you changed the price, it would changefor even existing customers.
I mean it was pretty hard-coded.
And so we rebuilt the billing systemwith 28 different currencies,a bunch of ability toadd different packages,different payment methods internationally.
Which is all very importantto just enable people to buy your product.
So that was kind of our first thing.
And then we've gone area by area:survey creation and survey analytics--- Before you go through all of that,so, you had three engineers.
- [Selina] Yes.
- You had a hard-coded system.
- [Selina] Yes.
- And add proven product,market-fit revenue.
- Yes.
- What are the firstthree hires they make?- So, that's a great question.
The very first hire I actually madewas a user experience designer.
Because our product when we did...
so I sat there and ranthrough usertesting.comand watch five videos.
And the first thing I realizedis there were so much,you know, quote-unquote,"low-hanging fruit", ofhow people were gettingto the experience andlearning about the experience.
And I thought if I could fixsome of these things quicklyon the current platformand already kind oftake a tick up in the business growth,that would give me some air coverto start rebuilding thetechnology platform.
So that was the very first hire I made.
It was a gentleman fromLinkedIn. (Selina laughs)- [Reid] I rememberthat amazing site, yes.
That wasn't a code this talk about Brian,but yes.
- Fantastic user experience designer.
And then the second wasa head of engineering.
A head of engineering whowas also from LinkedIn.
- As I remember that too.
This really wasn't codefor that, but keep going.
This is part of howSilicon Valley operates,because people actually...
The book that Chris and Iauthored on the alliancesis actually people do tours of duty,they work one place, then other place,that is action back the way it operates.
- And you take companies that are awesomeand amazing and doing well,and you try to say...
I mean those are the companiesthat as smaller companies you look up to.
And you're thinking about,how do we take some of that talent?Then I hired the director of engineeringand her first job was to figure outwhat language we should use.
Because we knew we neededto rebuild the platform,we were building the team inSilicon Valley and we knewthat there was not agood community for .NET.
So we looked at Python, Ruby, and Java,and we made the decision on Python.
- [Reid] What made you makethe decision on Python?- So I looked at three factors.
I had like this deep spreadsheet.
The first was hiring, was who can we hireand what are the communities available?The second was, what is the scale?So we looked at othercompanies that were usingdifferent languages at the time and, like,how people had scaledwith those languages.
And then the third was aroundjust the comparables.
Because again and that reallygoes back to hiring and scale,but it is really kind of focusedon those different thingsbecause those are going to end upbeing the factors that matter.
Both scale of the tech platform but also,how can you have ascaled development team?- And did you have a target for how manyengineers you'd have within 12 month?- That I don't rememberbecause I was also fourand a half months pregnantwhen I started.
And so I was also going onmaternity leave in March.
But yeah, I don'tremember the exact target,but we were just hiringas quickly as we could,I think we ended up withabout 8 or 10 at the endof that first year from anengineering perspective,a couple product and a couple UX.
- And then how much...
I mean global obviouslyplayed a significant rolefor billing and currencies.
How much was the thought of, okay, now,part of beginning to prepfor really massive scale,was kind of the global scope key?- Yeah, so in terms of, you know, againwe were really focused globally from...
Get the platform readyand not necessarily,you know, we weren'tputting people locally,we weren't putting anyfootprint locally yet.
It was, get the platformand start that viral engine.
And so that was really ourfocus from a global perspective,it was, launch the different languagesand you do see an up-tickwhen you launch different languages.
And then the second piece of itis giving them that ability to pay.
So that was really our onlyinitial global strategy.
- Got it, and how aboutany pattern differences on virality?- Globally? Absolutely.
There's a huge difference bothin terms of virality globally...
And that is based on the number of yearsinto how much that brandhas been in market.
Because when you'redepending upon a viral funnelyou're very much dependingupon the fact thatthat customer has awareness of the brand.
And so you start seeingimpact when people overseetheir second, third,fourth, fifth surveys.
And then you start gettingmore of the viral funnel going.
And that was actuallytrue at Evite as well.
At Evite you had an averageof 18 invitees to one user,but you needed to receivea certain number of evitesbefore you then created.
And so when you're thinkingabout those viral models,you have to think about there's likethe primary step viral modelsand then these secondarystep viral models.
- And how many like different cohortswere you tracking?What's the rough size of the A/B testing?- Yeah, so that's a great point.
That was the otherthing we did right away.
We launched A/B testing.
It was fascinating torealize that, you know,Ryan had such gorgeous product instinct,but he had grown on by instinct.
He hadn't done a single A/B test.
And so we added in justright away an A/B testing,very simple, like A/B testinghome page, the end page,which was the page when youfinished taking the survey.
Start testing, you know, doyou want to check out flowthat's three pages versus five pages?How do you want to show your pricing page?And just your experience.
And we just started heavily,heavily A/B testing.
If you haven't A/B testedbefore and you're at that scale,and there will be a scaleyou hit where you can start,because it's easy to getstatistical significance,if a test takes more thanlike two or three monthsit's just hard to reallyget any motion behind it.
But once you get to that pointthen there's so many easywitness you can have.
Because you suddenly have that trafficto start seeing user behavior.
- We did something,our first hack on thiswithin LinkedIn was,we actually set up a simpleA/B testing infrastructurethat essentially was on a Mode 10,so you could do up to 10different cell variants,you do two--- At eBay we did likeuser, auto even user ids.
- Yep, that would be...
Although you have to get a certain amountof volume--- [Selina] to get, yeah.
- Oh, eBay was actually one of the very...
That, PayPal and theSixDegrees, and a few otherswere the very first virality,they're actually onesreally deploying virality.
So then, one of the other pieces of visasin terms of getting ready for boot scalingwas when you began to dothis kind of metrization,what did that mean for dashboards?What did that mean for analytics?What did that mean for data?- So, there were no analytics before 2009.
Like there was the Daily Cash Reportand that was it.
And so, as far as understandingand first establishingwhat were the key metricsthat we actually wanted to establish.
And I strongly believe,you as a whole companycan't get initially behindmore than three to five,and then there was thedrivers underneath it.
So the fist thing we needed to dowas actually put the datainto a data warehouseand then actually startlooking at the data.
But then we started to having to buildall the dashboards globally.
You have an activity dashboard,which is what people are doing,your metrics dashboard in termsof your subscriber counts.
But we have different dashboards.
And everything sort of gets multipliedby the number of countries.
So there's more to watch.
But for a subscription-based business,which is probable the same as LinkedIn,the key metrics are thenumber of free users,your free users that become paying users.
But for us the other mainkey metric is engagement.
So, how many users actuallydeploy their survey,how many responses theyget and then, of course,how many users stay with you,so what's your turn rate.
- So let's turn a littlebit back to hiring.
So the first couple of hires were,let's go raid a, anothercompany. (Selina laughs)And then after that, what was the plan?- So, for an engineering side,because we had chosen Python--- [Reid] Oh, I didn't notpromise to make you blushwhile we were doing this. (Selina laughs)- Because we were doing Pythonwe did a lot of, youknow, we went to meetups,we went to...
Oh, we hired our first Stanford intern,who now runs all of our mobile.
And so we came to Stanfordand did a bunch of recruiting here.
Yeah, we did Python meetups andtried to get a lot of peopleon the Python communityfrom the engineering side.
But you hire also justa traditional recruiter,who is out there on LinkedIn,and trying to get talent.
But that was also one of the first hireswe made was a recruiter,and the data analyst, like you said.
- And on the recruiter, wasthere anything in particularthat you were thinking as aright thing to do in orderto hire effectively?- So, it was funny because,the recruiter still tells this story,but basically sat me down,I had just come from Europe,and he had come from Google.
And so he had all of this was stillwhen Google was hiring based on GPAand all of this stuff.
And he sat me down and he said,"Okay, so I've all thesecriteria," he said,"What's your criteria?"And I said, "I want no assholeswho can solve problems."And that's it.
And he's like, "Well, how amI going to screen for that?"I'm like, "I can screenfor that." (Selina laughs)You find me good talented people,like, you find me good peoplewho have like raw talent andwe can figure the rest out.
They don't need tonecessarily have known Python,they don't necessarily need to have...
They need to have raw goodproblem solving and coding skills.
And that has been kind ofour philosophy throughout.
And we've had pretty goodluck hiring that way.
And I feel like that's helpedbuild a very good culture.
And that was Dave's philosophy as well.
He wrote a nice LinkedIn post about it.
- [Reid] I remember.
And how, as you scaled, how did you keepthat culture and hiring philosophy?- So it's been importantto us from the start.
But we basically, itgoes into our screens,such as we don't ask people...
people do code on a whiteboard.
You know, like the engineersso code on the whiteboard,but they can choose thelanguage of their choice,as an example.
And then, we ask everybody,we've been trying to do thesort of unconscious bias,like making sure we were interviewingwithout trying to justtake people like yourselvesby asking the kind of thesame set of questions,then it's better to dobehavioral questioning.
So it's much better to do, ask somebody,how would you solve this problem?Or what would you do in this situation?Than necessarily asking someonehow they did something in the past.
So I think that's beena really important thingfor us in the interviewing.
- [Reid] And how manyengineers are you now roughly?- We're about 150, but there have beentwo to three acquisitionsthat have significantly addedto that engineering count.
- [Reid] And when did youstart doing the acquisitions?- Dave liked doing deals.
We did a major deal actually in 2012,which was buying our largest competitorcalled Zoomerang.
And that was a huge thingbecause we had to withinnine month deprecatetheir entire technology platformand move all the customersover to our system.
And so, it was a major effortfrom the technology teams.
But we do have a few ofour strongest developersfrom that acquisition.
- If you were to goback and call yourself,be able to tell yourself before you wentinto that acquisition or the tech move,what would you tellyourself to do differently?- Once again, not go onmaternity leave the second timein the middle of it, but besides that...
Besides that, I would say,the biggest thing was,we were really set onreplicating all of the featuresthat were on their platform,because we wanted to makesure all of the customershad a fantastic experiencewhen they'd move over.
Because we were causingthem to like switch brandswhen they had madeclearly an active choicebetween two competitors, right?But in retrospect, youhave to balance that versusthe opportunity cost of everythingwe could have been doing.
So I maybe would have spent, you know,there were a few featuresthat I think that we probablydidn't have to build on SurveyMonkey,that weren't applicableenough or large enoughfor the audience.
But I think, in general, it was...
I was very proud of the teamand we did it within nine months.
- By the way, you may not know this,but PayPal merged withits primary competitor,a company called X.com,very early in the time.
X.com was running NT,whereas PayPal was actually mostly C++,not even Java and Solaris,some Java on that.
And one of the things when I think aboutwhat I essentially call my younger selfit's be more decisive about, likeokay, this is what the new tech universeis going to look like right away.
Like, Oh, we're goingto kind of talk about itand we're going to figureout what's best and so forth.
There was just tremendousbrain damage from that.
It was like, nope, we do it this way--- That we did like within the first weekI was like removing all the customerswhen we're bringing everybody over.
So that part was good.
It was more than, okay,what do you do then,which feature set?- [Voiceover] I've aquestion on recruiting.
Why is behavioral worsethan asking about the past?- Why is behavioral better?- [Voiceover] Better, yeah, exactly.
- It creates less bias,especially around things likewomen and people of color,who tend to have...
There's a lot of research on,actually a lot of research from Stanford.
But, is because women tendto sell themselves shortin what they were saying that they didand men tend to say theydid more than they did,as an example.
And so, if you give somebodya situation of the future,which is how would youhandle this situation,you tend to get actually better.
- [Voiceover] And then why my question is:what was the most productiverecruit in general,which one was the one whereyou wasted the most time?- Most productive wouldalways, always, alwaysbe employer referrals.
If you get great peopleand they're always goingto refer great people,If they like the place that you work,I assume you found that.
Obviously, when you'restarting from scratch,and don't have employees,I mean, LinkedIn is thebest place to recruit.
I'm not just saying this becauseI'm sitting next to Reid.
- [Reid] Or feeling guilty.
- Or feeling guilty.
But no, I meant yourapplication, not your company.
(laughing)But the second,I would say as far as probablythe worst channel...
That's a great question, actually--- [Reid] Or a couple of bad channels.
- We didn't tend to find like a lotof the career fairsbecause a lot of the time is the peopleattending career fairs aren'tthe same people that like...
We didn't find career fairsgenerally very useful,except Grace Hopper one was good,the women's conference,but in general, we didn't findcareer fairs very helpful.
I mean in college careerfairs are good, like Stanford,but in terms of like, you know,other ones that are put onmore generally, not that good.
- So let's talk about alittle bit about how you alsoevolved the product as you were growing.
Because you had this, you know, you startwith a small number of engineers,super hard-coded,tech-platformed basically,none of the serious companiesin Silicon Valley use.
With already a partially global scope,but in need to go more global.
So you have to kind of do all that,you have to fix all that,you have to make it more modular,you have to bring in data,you have to essentially do, you know,the data all sorts of ties to viralityand all the rest of the stuff.
But you also have to evolve the product.
You have to say: okay,in order to affect our scale curve,these are the kinds of things that we needto do with the product.
I wonder what was the "low-hanging fruit",that already came with the,"I'm going to hire a userexperience designer."There's so much basicstuff that would thenimprove, increase conversion usage.
What are the others?- So the best investment that we hador the biggest, you know,a strong believe we hadwas that over time the sortof creation on the surveysmay get commoditized, which is, you know,the creating forums, creating surveys.
There's still a lot there,like there is advanced logic,there is all these thingsthat people want to do.
But that actually trying tocreate insights out of the datawas where we wanted to innovate,we wanted to helpcustomers understand data.
So we invested a lot andwe continue to invest a lotin terms of our analytics.
Which was, how do you let customers easilyslice and dice thedata, understand trends.
And one of the big things welaunched was comparative data,which takes a lot of workbecause you need peopleto use a similar question set,like use questions from a question bank,but then look at comparative data.
We might get feedbackabout how this class was,and you guys might have said it was okay,but we don't know if itwas more okay or less okaythan the different class.
And so, how do we compareacross the spectrumof your other Stanford classes?And that's what you needto know and understandif your class was good or badand then we start to buildingout a benchmark's product.
So these are the thingswhere we're really focusedon providing the analyticsto the customers.
- And what were, whenyou began thinking about,okay, we're going to be global.
How did you begin to figure outwhat is the right partizationof which key featureswould unlock the scale?- So, in terms of, like I said,the very first and basic thingwas letting them pay you.
So the payments, which is,you know, obviously likeintegrating PayPal,integrating bank transfer.
In Germany 60% of the userspay with bank transferbecause since World War IIpeople didn't get credit cards as much.
So the payment market in all these marketsis very different.
So that's something just by naturethat you have to just allow.
So that sort of like base-building blocks.
And then for us,obviously, the translationis like base-building blocks.
What we found is thatvery much in product,like once you're in the product,you didn't need that much customization.
Besides the basic things:state format, all that stuff.
But it was really abouthow you were talkingabout your product thatneeded to be localized.
So, what types of usecases are people doingin different markets differently?The concept of collectingemployee feedbackis very foreign in some markets,like it's not somethingthat's done in every market.
And so it's more about how you're talkingabout your customersand also how you'rerepresenting in those pages.
In Japan, as an example,the number of images on the home page,I think is about three to four x thaton average in the US home page.
And so those were thethings that we had to start,we've done some and westill have more to do.
- Do you actually make that?For example, that Japan translation?- So, in Japan we'reactually doing only now.
- Got it, that struck me asa very specific number here.
So, when you begin to thinkabout going to market,for example, one of thethings you discovered isdifferent markets wouldactually use surveysfor different things.
- [Selina] Yes.
- Whether it's employees' satisfaction--- [Selina] Or it was in education, yeah.
- What was some of the lessons therethat unlocking those lessonsactually really helped to scale?- So, I think it's again,it's, you kind of said it,it's really watching the metricsand understanding what people are doingand so therefore you'retalking to them moreabout what they're doing,because your brand awarenessin these markets is tiny.
And so, the difference inthe US is we can say, like,"Hey, create a survey and get answers."In other markets we need to say, like,"Oh, here's all of the thingsyou can do with a survey,"here's why you may wantto create a survey."Suddenly you turn to a lotmore educational contentthat has to be relevant for their market.
It's more about thatlack of brand awareness.
- [Reid] Any particularcountries that were surpriseson the upside or downside?- I wouldn't say so, like in terms of,the English markets are easier.
I mean the other thing, obviously,which also as we started doing a lotof search engine optimizationand search engine marketing per market,and so you're starting to buildup content pages per market.
But it's obviously easier todo that in English markets.
And so, even, you know,our business was almost all USwhen we started in 2009,now it's about 60% USand 40% international,but a chunk of that isjust international English.
But no, it's very muchbased on market sizeand internet penetration.
So, where you start lookingat the next base marketsof Germany and so forth.
- Anything that wasparticularly interesting on...
One thing that mostpeople know intuitivelyis how virality works.
The product is used in an invitation send,someone touches it, they may convert,there's a whole bunchof different analysisabout getting theK-factors, and time series,and cohort analysis, andall of that's to do that.
SEO and SEM, that was important.
What was some of the key lessons there?By the way, LinkedIn, very similarly,one of the things we realized wasthat one of the things that members wantedwas a public profile page and so we said,okay, let's allow you toupload a profile page,let's allow that being dexed in Googleand then that became another halfby which LinkedIn was discovered.
Were there similar things?- Yes, the most similar thingis one of the big waysyou build link authorityis by having links all over the web.
Well, SurveyMonkey haslinks all over the web.
So our link authority was great in the US.
So we needed to create localized domainsand, you know, country-level domainsand start sending thesurveys out on those domains.
So that you start buildingup link authority locally.
And so that you start rankingin those local search engines.
That's really important for local SEO.
And similarly, start putting onyour logged-out site experiencekind of on that to build up the local SEO.
But starting create those backlinkswere very important for us.
- Did you encourage customers...
That's a stretch, not a question, right?- [Voiceover] That's certainly a question.
- Okay.
- [Voiceover] How do you startwhen you're going to any market,do you do like a market campaign?What do you do to get going?- So for us because we already hadusers in those countries,we just started switchingthe survey trafficover to those domains.
But in markets where wehad very little trafficwe were also buying the keywords to start off with.
So we were starting to buysome of the search traffic.
But you have to startfiguring out by marketwhich were the key words that have trafficand start building out content pageson those key words.
And so we also did thatfrom a search engineoptimization perspective.
- [Voiceover] In termsof building processesfrom the part of it wasthat percolate acrossdifferent geographies,how do you manage that?- So we didn't have, we still don't haveproduct and engineering globally.
All of our product and engineering...
And we have a largedevelopment center in Ottawa,which was also through an acquisition,but we've grown that quite significantly.
But all of the productand engineering right nowwe're doing, is done kindof in a centralized wayacross the platform.
So, our developmentmethodologies don't necessarilyhave to change for global.
Everybody does need to be able to havesort of a Pig Latinversion of the applicationon their site and their code base.
So that you can start understandingbecause on average it's like,I think, 1.3 length oflanguage versus English.
You have to start justmaking sure you're developingand designing forinternational from the start.
But we do it centrally.
I think you guys, LinkedIn has people--- Yeah, we're pretty central,central on R&amp;D.
We have offices in 30+ countriesrelative to sales, account management,customer service, these sorts of things.
Okay, so, customers.
Did you actually try to get your customersto publish the results oftheir surveys as part of SEO?- So, we have the abilityfor customers to say,"I allow you to publish this publicly."The promise is that...
A lot of our usage is for people to tryto find out feedback around eitherlike employees, or patients, or so forth.
There's not necessarily somethingthat people want to share.
But what we did do iswe launched a business,again, using our scale,we took the end of the survey pageof people who had seen it a few times,and we built out from that page a panel.
So basically, we asked peopleif they wanted to take a survey,and if they took a survey,in turn we would give 50 cents to charity.
So we used this scale of this page,which was basically alarge marketing page,and built out a secondarybusiness on top of it.
And in that businesswe run studies and ask people questionsand publish that data out,so it's like higher quality dataand that does help with SEO and key terms.
- Yeah, that makes sense actually.
It would be the classic thingwhere you can get actuallysome super high quality resultswould be very interestingfrom an SEO perspective,but difficult to get.
So one of the things I think is endemicto kind of part of thethread that is Web 2.0is data as a platform.
Where you start thinking aboutwhat kinds of newapplications you can build,given that you haveessentially a pile of data.
How do you guys think about that?- Yes, we absolutely think about it,it's one of the most importantthings that we think about.
As I was talking about,when you start buildingthese comparative data sets...
I mean this market to build benchmarksis, on average, tensof thousands of dollarsto even hundreds of thousands dollarsto get a benchmark.
We offer right now for600 bucks or 800 bucksbecause we have this platformand we have this scale of all these users,and we're able to aggregate the dataand anonymize it, of course,and then create an awesome benchmark.
- [Voiceover] And what kindsof things are being benchmark?- And also a student may not understandwhy benchmarks are so important,so say that too.
- So, right now employeesatisfaction we have,we have net promoter score,which is how you mightdo customer satisfaction,we have a K-12 Parent-Education survey,and we have an event feedback templateyou can get benchmark.
So it's basically, where youstart building enough datathat's statistically significantor you can slice it and dice it by one.
So if you think about classroom feedback,Stanford probably would want to lookat other universities similar to themin order to see if Stanfordwas in comparing it.
Or within campus you probablywould maybe want to...
Like a CS professor may want to compare itagainst other CS classes.
We don't have enough data significancefor a classroom feedback, though.
- So, let's shift to management.
And this is not so much of a codeabout difficulties with Goldy.
But as much as, you're goingto build a company for scale,Goldy hires you, Goldy hires Tim.
How do you build up therest of the management?What are the principles of that?So we talked about hiring already some,but how does...
like putting in a managementlayer into the company?- This has been one of the most fun,but also hardest challenges we've had.
So, we had a very specific thing thatboth Dave and I believed infrom a management perspective,a couple of things.
One is that we really liked to find peoplewho had had some startup experience,but also some scale experience.
If you look at Dave, he had startedat a company called LAUNCH,but had also been runningall of the Yahoo Music.
I started Evite, but I hadalso been running, you know,250 people at Ticketmaster.
So it was like finding that peoplewho had done both, amix of small and scale.
And so, our head ofproduct, similarly he hadkind of been at Yahoo, whichwas more scaled companyand then been in startup called TripIt.
So we were in generaltrying to find peoplewho had a little bit of that balance.
Because we liked the cultureof the small company,and we have the culture, had the culture,still somewhat have theculture of a small company.
- [Reid] How big are younow, how many people?- About 690.
It's heading towards the city, I know,I was like, I need to sit onthe other side of this class.
But finding people who can scale upas you go is hard and some people won't.
We had a fantastic guywho was responsible forvarious things and...
They came to a point where he startedhaving to manage managersand he didn't enjoy it.
Like it wasn't fun forhim, he didn't like it.
And he was great at the hands onlike getting stuff done,managing a couple of people,leading a small team.
So when we were in thatsort of tribe stage,he was fantastic, butthen he didn't necessarilyget to a point where hescaled to that next level.
And then there's some people that have.
And our general view is wereally like hiring from within,with all of our engineering managersalmost all except one havebeen hired from within.
It's been something that's beenimportant to us culturally,but there does come theplace where you actuallyneed to bring an expertwho's done it before.
And so, it's finding thatright balance of kind ofkeeping people and helpingthem grow and keeping that.
They understand theculture of the company,they have the rightmotivations along with peoplethat are bringing thatexperience to the table.
- This one we covered a little bit.
We introduced the whole kind ofwhat are the challenges of beginningto scale and multi-thread your company,basically Tuesday.
And one of the thingsthis whole question about,how much do you hire externallyand how much do you promote within,and how do you identify those peopleand how are you navigatingand how do you keep the peoplethat you actually really want to keep,even though you're notpromoting them into the role.
What was some of the considerations there?- Yeah, I take that lastthing is one of the hardest,if not impossible,which is when you have to layer peopleand then keeping themmotivated and excited,because it's very hard for somebodywho's been responsible for a functionor responsible for things.
And even though it makes sensethat as the company growsyour role may get smaller.
It doesn't mean that your rolehas actually gotten smaller,your role has actually gotten bigger,but the scope of it has gotten smaller,but in a bigger company.
That's very hard for peoplein general to stuck--- Although, what you also just revealedis that is actually, by the way,the classic language that mostly peoplewho were trying to do this did this.
Actually in fact your job is bigger.
One person running this,this privileged group nowand you're not that person,but your job is actually stillbigger than it was before.
- Right, exactly.
That is difficult.
There will be some peoplewho really only enjoythat tribe stage of companies,or really enjoy sort of the tribeto the beginning of the village.
And there are serial peoplewho like going through that.
And that's great.
If you know that that's what you love,that's great!Like, you know, there's a womanwho did international LinkedInand did it at SurveyMonkey,and you're going to hear her from your appand she's done,internationally at Nextdoor.
- [Reid] Actually that's funny.
Minna was at LinkedIn,then SurveyMonkey, and the Nextdoor--- But she is absolutelyfantastic at driving,setting the platform forinternational when you start.
But there's a point where she's like,"hey, I've done it, andthen I go to the next one."And so there will be people like thatwho really enjoy certainscale or size of the company,and that's fantastic.
It's like figuring out what you enjoy.
The hardest piece is when peoplewere running a functionand then you need to bring people,that is tough.
- The other part that highlightswith Minna and specific is,part of the arc that we haveventured as you start with,you're always hiring generalists,but how you deploying them generally.
Generalist early is doing everything,then you're covering the new ground,the in-between the differentareas of specialization.
The new entrepreneurialproject you're doing panels,you're doing benchmarking,you're doing these kinds of things.
But you're also hiringmuch more specialists.
And part of what Minna is,is an internationalization specialist,who's like, I know this game, hold,and this is how you playit and this is what you do.
And this is how you come from a companythat hasn't thought about itand move into a company that does,which is precisely what she has been--- And there will be some people, though,that scale extremely well.
The woman who I mentioned,who started as the BI Analyst,like when I said oneof my first five hires,she now is our VP of Growth and Analytics.
So there are those peoplewho can scale and grow,and there's those people who can't.
And that is the hard thing,because you obviously knowpeople who you've worked withfor a couple of years, two-three years,you want everybody to scale and grow.
- [Reid] And as you werescaling, did your senseof what competition look likeor what the opportunity look like change?- Absolutely.
One of the things isthat there's many factorsthat go on around you in terms ofwhat the large players are doing.
So, even in our case, we have...
Google has a Forms product and so...
It has some similarities.
And so, you see largerplayers making changesand then you also see upstartsthat start really specializing.
So there is somebody that, you know,has built a really nice productspecifically aroundjust employee engagementand they're going afterjust that HR space.
So, you constantly see competitionwhen you're a large general platform.
It's just a question ofhow significant is it,and how much is itaffecting your business,and where do you want to think about M&amp;A,like we did with Zoomerangand FluidSurveys.
- Did you do any M&amp;Athat wasn't actually within your space?- We did like an adjacent, like Wufoo,which was a forms-based product,but not really.
- And you haven't set upan Acquihires Department yet for--- So we did use somemember of Y Combinator,didn't quite make it.
- Because actually that's another pattern.
So there's major acquisitionswhich are strategic,and then there's a numberof small acquisitionswhich is part of you getentrepreneurial people.
- Absolutely, and those are great.
The acquihires are greatin terms of like findings.
Because those turn out to be...
we did this one acquirehireand the two guys were stillthere five years laterand they're basically runningthat entire audience businessfrom private and engineering perspective.
Just amazing talent.
- And how did you feel about,you mentioned Google Forms,how do the large players figure in,whether it's Google or Microsoft or..?Obviously, some of what you must dois social graph optimization as well,given Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn.
- Yeah, I think that ingeneral it's a questionof where is the rightplace to partner as well.
And so, thinking about how do you createthe right partnerships and work withintheir ecosystem as well.
- [Student] What wassome of the acquihires,how did you identify them?Because in small companieslike no one's really heard of.
- Yeah, the really small ones.
In general, it is a pretty small valleyand so when you have like good talent,whether or not making it,whether it's one of theY Combinator companies,or just other ones, like you'll get a callinto your M&amp;A--- [Student] Same as someof them came to you?- Most of them came through Dave.
Dave had a very wide vast network.
- The usual pattern for that is,you probably have a corped person now,but the usual pattern ofhaving corped out personwho this is their daily jobis that part of the reasonwhy you're intenselyfocused on being connectedin the Silicon Valley network.
Some of that through investors,some of that through, you know,keep people in the company,founders, executives, etc.
That almost all comesfrom some version of that.
So it's like, Oh, you know,Dave knows Sam Altman.
Sam calls Dave, says:hey, there's this groupthat actually really likes youand maybe you should consider--- Yeah, we're doingsomething slightly similar,the kind of passion about surveys,like the one I mentioned,they were doing like phone polling.
And we did another one which waslike somebody I had worked with in 1999,like their company.
As you start building your network,you'll hear about, people will reach outif they enjoyed working with you.
Yeah, or you identifying it, I'm not sure.
- [Voiceover] Speaking of that point,isn't it super expensive?I mean I kind of have no idea--(hum drowns out speaker)- [Reid] You mean acquihire is expensive?(hum drowns out speaker)- That is actually theusual benchmark for that,which is a million per engineer.
Actually in fact, it'sexpensive if you said:this is the only way I'm hiring.
(hum drowns out speaker)- Absolutely, but by the way,it's not any five engineers,it's the white five engineers.
And part of what you'reusually doing in that case,that's five engineers who workreally, really well together,who've demonstratedentrepreneurial ability,who can be part of the new bloodof really driving something pretty seriousin what you're doing.
That is actually in factworth of every single buck.
- And remember, it's going tobe a mix of cash and equity.
So it's also equity inyour current companythat they are hopefullymaking a big impact on.
- [Voiceover] That'sassuming that's over sometime frame as well?- [Selina] Yeah.
- Almost always, minimum two years,sometimes four.
The whole question is,I mean the alignmentof incentives question,when you get to compensation,is actually extremely importantin circumstances like these.
It's important all of the time,but extremely important here.
Did you have a question? Okay.
(hum drowns out speaker)- That's a great question.
- And by the way, whydon't you restate it,just to make sure we're going on.
- So, the question was,did SurveyMonkey have anythingto try to reduce bias in the questions.
One of the most interestingthings you'll seeis if you actually ask peopleif they agree or disagree.
In the US they're going to mostly agree.
Just by nature Americanslike to agree with things.
- [Reid] I disagree. (Selina laughs)- But this research is also from Stanford.
And actually the amountof that changes by market,which is what really interesting.
- Have you ever publishedwhat that percentage is?- We have it on by-post,but I don't remember right.
- I guess I'll go find that bummer.
- So what we did is we actuallybuilt a couple things.
One is we have this question bankwhich helps you create,write the questions,or use the questions that are wordedin the right way withthe right answer options.
Because the difference interms of how the answer optionsare also worded, needto be equally spaced.
And so we worked to make surethat the questions themselveskind of help reduce bias.
The other thing is we havethe amount of functionalityso you can randomize.
You can randomize options,you can randomize things.
So that you're actually not.
Because people often choosethe first thing as well.
But there's definitelythings that you can doon a technological level.
Also post the surveys or help people withresponding quality and survey quality,like make sure that things are good.
And we are making someinvestments there now.
(hum drowns out speaker)- So let me slightlygeneralize that question,because it was covering different parts.
What are the competitive barriersto SurveyMonkey as it succeeds its scale,isn't that reflects one of themand if so, how so andwhat are the other ones?- Great, so in terms ofjust in general, though,one of the main competitive barriersis going to be both your data.
So if you've been using the product,you start wanting tosee your data over time.
And then the second is, as we build,as we provide you thecomparative data setsthat also is a competitive differentiatorthat most people don't have.
But part of the reason whywe've done acquisitionsis because similar compannies...
Is because once youchoose a survey productand your data starts going in thereand you have that data over time,your willingness to moveproducts is very low.
So when people are churnedout of SurveyMonkey,the main thing they tellus why they've churnedis because they don't havea need fro it right nowbut I'm going to be back.
And so, that is a hugecompetitive differentiatorthat you actually have.
But it is also, again, like I said,it's the more you can do to providepeople insights of thedata the better you are,whether it's the open-ended feedback.
so trying to do naturallanguage processing.
We have a basic text analysis today,but that's another placethat we're investing.
- Feel free to ponder on this question,it was too sensitive,but what have you found in particularabout the re-engagement?So, how do you model the re-engagement,to get the customerwho is apparently churned back in?- So we spend a lot oftime of re-engagementboth through emailing the customerand also through re-targetingon both LinkedIn and Facebook.
So, trying to find thecustomer where they areand remind them that they shouldre-engage to do feedback.
So we have very specificre-engagement curves,which we don't share.
- That's what I figured,because I realized that this would bea very sensitive area,which is the reason I framed it as,only what you can say.
- But it is a very significantportion of our business,is getting people to essentiallycome back and re-use you.
So existing customerskind of paying you again.
- [Reid] Do you use anymachine learning on that?- We do use propensity model,which is using, based on users' behavior,which is looking at whattypes of surveys they've doneand using a bunch of variablesto decide when to re-contact them.
And similarly with whatwe should show themat the end of he survey.
- [Reid] Yep-yep, makes sense.
Oh, question.
(hum drowns out speaker)- Yeah, so for me there's three things--- By the way, restate the question--- Sorry, the question was...
You know, when I first heard Surveysit didn't sound that interesting.
But it was a scaled company,that was one of the thingsthat attracted me to it.
So, what are the importantthings to think about?For my mind, there's threeimportant things to think aboutwhen you're thinking aboutyour company, a company.
Whether you're starting it from scratchor you're going to a company.
And the first is the product.
So I said that when I first heard SurveysI didn't think it was that interesting,but what excited me washow all of the peoplewere actually using thedata and listening towhether it was theircustomers, their students,their parents, their patients.
Like the product is themost important thingin terms of you need to be excited about,especially as an engineeryou're going to spendall of your timedeveloping and building it.
And that is very important to me.
The second is alwaysgoing to be the people.
I mentioned Dave, I'vementioned him many times,he was a fantastic leader,the best mentor and managerI've ever had in my career.
But having people and then for meit was also the opportunityto build my team.
So I could choose the people I wantedand help build that culture.
That's always the second thing.
And the third thing is whatyou are going to learn there.
And for me the part thatI was going to learnwas could we actually take this companythat was at scale from a size-perspective,so we get A/B test and learn,but the team was small,and scale it up.
And that was the partthat I hadn't done before,that I was super excited about.
I'd had this small company Evitethat we grew it to 30people when we sold it.
And I've been at Ticketmasterwhich was humongous.
But actually taking that companyfrom that small size to largewas what I was super excited to learn.
It's been six years and afantastic learning experience.
- The other thing I would add,which I'm sure is partof the SurveryMonkey,but if you begin to say,so two critiques of Peter's statement,one of them is essentially thatactually in fact software's transforminga number of different industries.
And so actually in fact, the factyou're getting a revolution in bitsactually means that you're alsogetting a revolution in atoms.
The second part of it is that,in the 50's they wereexpecting flying cars,but they weren't expecting mobile phones.
It's kind of is a way of doing this.
Now, the key thing is that intelligenceand how you operateactually massively increases productivity,whether it's an individualor an organization.
And so part of your actualmission is trying to...
Whatever the individual or mission,how do you help them operatemuch more intelligently?- Yeah, how do you help peoplemake better decisions with data?That is an exciting mission.
And like you have to be super excitedabout the mission of your companyif you're going to stay there for a while.
- Have you ever heard Tufte come talk at,Edward Tufte, visual design?- No, but I've read the books.
- You should have him come talking...
Anyway--- [Voiceover] I just have a quick questionabout re-engagement again.
(hum drowns out speaker)- No, that's all in-house- [Voiceover] How muchof the re-engagementis like a percentage ofall of your customers?- That's the piece that we don't share.
- By the way, one generalization,more or less one of thetruths of any businessso much of the scale the scaled thing is,anything thatmachine-critical is in-house.
Anything like this is thekey thing by which we win,if that's out of house,that's a major risk factor.
An intelligent manageris trying to figure outhow to bring it in-house.
- [Voiceover] But the major sourcesof re-engagement are Facebook and--- Oh, you meant in termsof how much of thatare you re-engaging that customer through,re-contacting them throughemail and re-reachingthem through other channels?- [Voiceover] Well, there's like multiplepieces of infrastructure,(hum drowns out speaker)- That's just literally buying advertizingon Facebook or LinkedInwhere you have the abilityto re-target usersX days or Xweeks or monthsafter they've churned,and try and convince them to come backbased on specific advertising.
I mean, obviously, you seeit right now with e-commercewhere like you go in overstockand then three minuteslater on another site,you're like, that's thedress that I just looked at!So that's like howre-targeting essentially works.
- [Voiceover] So itseems like SurveyMonkeyhasn't really been aggressivein penetrating the mobile space,can you please explain this?- Sure, we can talk about mobile.
So, as far as the question was,it doesn't seen like SurveyMonkeyis necessarily been aggressiveabout the mobile space.
So, about people taking surveys today,domestically it's about 35%,internationally it's about 50%,who are taking it on a mobile phone.
So it is extremely importantthat our experience isoptimized for mobile web.
Those users who are taking surveyswill not be downloading our mobile app.
We have a mobile app that'sboth for Android and iOS,that's been pretty successful,that is mostly for creating surveys.
But what most people aredoing on the mobile appis they're really managing their results,they want to check theirresults in real time,and they want to make quickfixes and edits on typos,because we've targetedour apps at existing userswho are trying to do stuffas more of a complimentto the desktop.
The other thing that we also haveis essentially a mobile SDK,which allows other app developersto integrate SurveyMonkeyinto their apps very easily.
And so, if people want to integrate...
We use it as an example for asking you,you know, if you click feedback,if you say you had a very good experience,then we might suggestyou go to the app store.
And if you had a bad experiencewe might try to collect more information.
But it's using surveys in app.
So that's been our mobile strategy.
It is absolutely vital internationallythat you're thinking, especiallyon that taking experience for mobile.
But you're not going to get a userwho is doing a none-recurring activityto download an app.
So you need to ensurethat your experiencesis fantastic on the mobile web.
And I don't know if you'veseen the recent data,but mobile web is growingabout 2x as fast as mobile apps.
So, there is no question thatthat has to be animportant part of anythingthat you would build today.
- Actually, a follow-on to that,which I actually hadn't realizedwould be a good question for youand you may or may not be able to answer,given I don't know which ofthe stuff is confidential.
Obviously, in a macro-sensethere's this interestingapp versus mobile web warbetween Apple and Google.
Because iOS is going like,let's really make it more app,Android and Google aremaking it more mobile web.
Does that play out in SurveyMonkey at all?- It play out in a different market.
So, as you can see,certain markets whereiOS is much stronger,like in US is about 50/50,but Japan iOS is much stronger.
So where you see more iOSyou then can see more per app downloadsand where Android isstronger you'll see...
Like we don't see asmuch Android app usage,but we do see a ton of mobile webcoming from Android.
And that's like marketsthat are more Android-heavywe've had less successin downloading the app.
- Right, next question.
And by the way, we're now at a pointwhere feel free to justinterrupt with questions.
I have a bunch more, but if you have them.
That class has beenentrepreneurial in asking anyway.
I only have one more critical question,everything is bonus around.
So, part of your scale-up wasgetting the multi-threading,being able to work on morethan one project at a time.
You have developer tools,you have the global billing,you have gone into panels.
What specifically didyou do to start tryingto enable multi-threading on decisioning,multi-threading on different groupsworking separately but also together,which is one of the really key thingsthat you begin to setup as the foundation?- So, it was very much tiedto the technical architecture,decision we made to move to aservice-oriented architecture.
And then I believe verystrongly that it's importantthat the teams that are workingon any set of the serviceshave an embedded team of a product leader,user experience designleader, QA atomation,obviously, the engineering leader,and then, an BI analyst,who's actually lookingat the data for that part.
If you've built somethingyou want to understandhow well it did and how well it's doing,so it's important thatthose metrics get fed back.
We basically structurethe team so that you havethese sort of teams that areworking on different services,or different parts of the app.
And then there's standardization of APIs.
And so how you're talkingto the service's tier is consistent.
So, that becomes importantas you start wanting to add new featuresor new products on topis that figuring outwhat are the guard railsyou want to give each teamand what is the freedomyou want to give each team.
And so in our case,the guard rails we gavewas 100% code-review,on the services tier,I think, 80 to 100% unit-task coverage.
And then, API standards.
But we didn't give a basicthat you had to...
We wanted you to releaseat least once a week.
But you can release more if you wanted to.
But basically, the thought-process was,I didn't actually care if people wantedto do three weeks sprintsor two weeks sprints,or they wanted to do kind ofsemi-waterfall or agile or whatever.
Commit your quarterly road map,figure out what youactually want to get doneand give as much freedomto the team as possible,but make sure that they'regetting the metrics backof how things actuallydid when it launches.
So I think it's important to do it24 hour, 7 day and 28 day read-outof everything that goes live.
But I feel like creatingthat embedded team model,like if you ask someone atSurveyMonkey engineering,they will more identify, regardless ofthey're product or QA or whatever.
They'll more identify as a gorilla,which is our analyze teamversus like I'm an engineer.
And I think that that's actually good.
- [Voiceover] So itseems like SurveyMonkeyis pretty similar to EventPro in terms ofit's a product for organizers to thendistribute their own way.
How do you guys think aboutproduct development given thatthere's two sorts of likeuser bases creators and the respondents?- Yeah, so again, whenever you're thinkingabout EventPro as the same,which is whenever you'rethinking about the factthat that respondentmight become your creator,like you have to make surethat the respondent experienceis just like fantastic,they can take the survey really well,that's optimized for mobile,that then when they lend, when they finishis a good experience.
But if you think about...
And that's 80% of our trafficis on the taking side.
But obviously our customer,the one who's paying us,the one who's putting their faith in usto actually send their survey outto the customers as the creator.
So in terms of from theresourcing perspectivewe spend most of our resourceson the survey creation side,because you need to get that personthrough the hurdle ofhaving the confidenceto like put their name out therewith a bunch of questionsto a bunch of other people.
And that is the customer who essentiallyin the end we're trying to upgradeto get into a paying customer base.
But you have to balance your resources,but you have to think aboutwhere that entry and startingpoint is of that live cycle.
- [Voiceover] Do you guysspend a lot of efforton getting the respondentsto become part of like,not just like the ecosystem,but also take other people'ssurveys or your own?- So when we launched the panel business,then you have the abilityto sign up to take surveysand every time you take a surveyyou get 50 cents to charityand then a creator can buy respondents.
So that was a new businessthat we launched in 2013,using kind of leveraging the factthat we have all these userswho want to not only necessarilysend surveys to people they know,but to potential customers,to do brand research or market research.
And so we leverage the fact that we havekind of this large trafficto build out this panel.
And we decided to do 50cents for charity of choiceversus money becausewe wanted to make surepeople weren't BSing it,like we wanted to make surepeople were answering andto make sure that answeringwas very high quality.
It was really important that, you know,no one's going to like to BS a surveyto give 50 cents to, you know,the Teach For America,so that's why we built it out that way.
Sorry, not that completelyanswers your question, but...
- Let's go down theroad, so no, you first.
- [Voiceover] So youmentioned at some pointthat as you scale the organization--(hum drowns out speaker)- That's a great question.
- [Reid] And, repeat it.
- Oh, sorry, the question was is that,you know as a manageryou're trying to figure outwho can essentially scale and grow,but as a person in thechair, how do I make surethat I'm scaling and growing?I would say, again, alot of it is, you know,is figuring out if you're actually enjoypeople management as it scales and grows.
It's not for everybody.
We put all of our engineers through thisengineering management screenand we have a very nicetech track for people too.
And so, you can either scalethrough a tech track wayand scaling the techtrack way and growing thatis about gaining knowledge,taking more ownershipof more services, showing mentoringother people on the team,and kind of being ableto take tech leadership.
But then there is also thepeople management track.
And you have to really decideif it's something that you enjoy.
But if you're in that role,like you've brought somebody in to lead,then there is a question...
If you think about it, ifyou're managing five peoplethen you're having a 20% impacton like five different things.
When you're suddenlymanaging like 50 people,you're having a 2% impacton 50 different things.
And so, you have to beexcited and feel excitedabout not necessarily get like,there is something sosatisfying to like codingand pushing it to productionand having it work.
Like you have to feel satisfactionover influencing other people.
And so part of it is like making surethat that's something you're excited aboutand being a good people manageris about removing roadblocks for your team,making sure that they'regetting what they needto get their job done.
And then, making sure thatyou're communicating to themabout what's like the most importantthings that you're working on.
And so, like that's notenjoyable to everybody.
So I think that thatalso becomes a question,is also starting to behonest with yourselfof like what you enjoy.
And then depending upon that,like working on those skills.
And I'm sure you're going to add to that.
- [Reid] Yeah, other will,we'll optimize the questions in.
(hum drowns out speaker)- So the question was,what the panel can you targetbased on specific demographic data?So, the answer is yes, and we collect itthrough a survey, so we ask them.
Which is actually the best wayto collect the data,and then as a buyer, you canchoose different demographics.
So if you're trying to launch a productfor young women you can targetyoung women and then ask them.
- Here please.
- [Voiceover] Do you have any plansentering with the polling space,survey polling space or similar?- I don't, did you see me?Sorry, his questionwas if we have anythingin entering the polling space.
Did you watch Meet The Press?Okay, well, we are polling, yeah.
So we've launched, MarkBlumenthal signed yesterday,joined our SurveyMonkey yesterday,was running Pollstar.com,we had John Cohen,who was the head of theWashington Post Polling.
We were the only companythat correctly called the UK election.
So we basically used theend of the survey pageas well as our panel,and we asked a bunch of questions.
And if you think about it,our sample size is so much largerthan calling people on the phone.
So now we have a partnership with NBCto poll on certain topics.
And so, it's something that, again,somebody asked the question around,how do you think about globalin terms of one of the thingsis like the brand awareness side.
If you start thinkingabout election and polling,if we can showthat the data is accurateand our sample is good,it helps obviously withthat audience panel,but it also vastly helps with buildingthat brand awareness and that confidencethat SurveyMonkey is not just this tool,but actually is a data business over time.
And building that confidence,as, you know, what isyour kind of next stepfrom an innovation perspectiveand the polling as an important piecefor that for us.
It's really cool, though.
You should look at the UK article,it's like pretty exciting.
- [Voiceover] You were saying about,it was important to do7 day, 28 day read-outs.
What are those?- Oh, sorry, I said thereason we introduced7 day and 28 day read outs...
With every feature or witheverything that gets builtit's important to say how it did.
And there are some features you builtthat didn't work and that's okay.
Like then you have to get rid of it,because just addingclutter for the customersis like not a good idea.
- [Voiceover] Taking a step backto when you first go in SurveyMonkey,it seems like there is alot that needed to get doneon all aspects of the company.
One thing that Reid talked aboutearlier on in these classesfiguring out which fires to let burn,which ones to put up,how did you do it?- So the question was,there seemed to be a lot to get done,how do we decide which fires to burn,which ones to put out.
I'd say we were in a veryadvantageous positionin that the businesswas doing really well.
So we could take an approach to say,let's break up the problems.
And I think that is from my perspectivethe most important thing.
It's like, what are the problemsthat are most important,which problems can you let go for longer.
And do a lot of it wascollecting customer feedbackand understanding whichparts of the application,whether it was through acombination of user testing,of a combination of lookingat the quantitative dataof what people were doing on the site.
As well as all of the customer feedbackand surveys of our own customersis understanding what were the piecesthat the customers were telling uswere the most broken.
And so, again, like globallywe saw customers couldn't pay.
That was a huge problem,because people wanted to use the service.
Then we saw that peoplecouldn't understand the data.
So focusing on analyticswas the most important.
People actually loved the waythat you could create the survey.
Like the biggest feedback was,"Oh, this is so easy touse, it's so easy to use"to get my surveys started."That's the last thing we attacked.
So it was very much looking atboth qualitative and quantitativefrom our customers to drivewhat were those fires.
- [Voiceover] I have a question about--(hum drowns out speaker)- So the question was that, you know,a lot of people recommendstaying here locallyand then I made thedecision to move to Londonand how did that affect my career?So, I did start here, we started Evitein kind of our dorm, actually,here at Stanford.
And stayed here for a number of years.
Evite sold to a mediaconglomerate called ISC,which owns Ticketmaster,Citysearch, Match,Expedia at the time.
And so, that was down in LA,so I was in LA for a couple of years.
But for me it was that, you know,I really wanted to gain thatinternational experienceand also just on a personal level,really wanted to live abroad.
And so, maybe if my career decisionmay have been better tocome back to the Valley,it was 2005 and, youknow, join a startup here.
But you have to balance I thinkwhat you really enjoypersonally and professionally.
And on a personal levelit was the best decisionI've ever made, I met my husband, so...
- [Voiceover] You mentionedthe first hire you hadwas the user experience designer.
Most people don't findsurveys extremely funor very exciting to do, right?So what kind of changes did you have to doto make it so that it'sas pleasant as possible?- So, the question was, you know, surveys,people don't necessarily find surveys fun,so how did you make itas pleasant as possible,given that we hired theuser experience designer?So again, a lot of itwas around the creator,was that how do we get that personright from that logged out experience,whether they were comingin through a search,or they were coming inthrough taking a surveyand drive that person into the funnel.
So how do we even, youknow, on-board them?Like what are you trying to do?And trying to help that personall along that experience.
But as I said, the biggest,biggest thing we focused onwith the user experiencedesign perspectiveis helping people understand their data.
The more people used our productto understand the datathat lowers our churn,so improves our engagement and retention.
So that is a very hard problem.
- [Voiceover] Given thatyou're like convertedthe technical team fromlike two-three engineersto what it is now,what was some of the highest leverage,like organizationalstrategies that you usedat the beginning when you got there?- So, the question was,given that we moved theteam from two to 150,what were some of theorganizational strategieswe used to scale, basically?- [Voiceover] That werevery high leverage,so something that took minimal effortthrough like very big?- [Reid] That was likeGoldberg hiring you.
- Yeah, I mean there's nothing with hiringthat is a silver bullet.
You have to slog throughhiring each person,getting them on-board.
I would say one of the things that hadthe biggest bank for thebuck was on-boarding,is like getting peopleon-boarded correctlyso they understand themission of the company,and understood what wewere trying to accomplish,where we were going froma vision perspectiveis one of the most important things thatyou can do to get people kick-startedwhen they're there structurally.
And then I would say, the other thingthat we really liked to dois that we always liked to have,the re has to be some cadencethat everybody's agreeing tothat the business should operate.
In our case, we decided on quarterly.
And so, every quarter there waswhat are we going toget done this quarter?And no matter whether wewere two people or 150 peoplewe still keep that cadencewhere everybody saysthis is what we're goingto get done in the quarter.
And I think that starting to buildthat in from the beginningis actually pretty importantbecause then people get used to thatsort of rhythm of the businessand that helps the organization sort ofknow what to expect in some time period.
What you can do goes from this to this,but it's still the fact thatyour communication is...
So every quarter I getthe entire team togetherand we quickly go through keythings we did last quarterand like great things coming up.
- [Reid] I'm going toask the last question.
Overtime, but I thinkit's still worth asking.
You have a phone line to call yourself,your younger self six years ago--- Oh, the beginning of SurveryMonkey.
- [Reid] Yes, what's theone thing or two thingsyou would tell yourself to do differently?I know saved the realfun moment to the last.
- Yeah, i know, so,what wold I tell myself to do differently?So I would say, this isa very technical thing,I would say the biggest thingwe didn't do fast enoughwas improve our deployment systems.
And I survey my team every single quarter,and as a team started to scale and grow,it was the thing that was comingback in the survey the most.
Which was make sure thatlike for us to get our code from keyboardto production was just too long.
And so, we should have just automatedall of the deploymentsystems right from the start.
So I would say that's one of the thingsthat cost way too muchengineer frustrationthat I should have dealtwith at the beginning.
The only thing I also to say is, you know,I think I did a pretty good job,but cherished David even more than I did.
- [Reid] Yeah, of course.
