WEBVTTKind: captionsLanguage: en- So it is my pleasure and honorto introduce Jeff Weiner.
He and I actually have beenhearing about each otherfor some number of yearsbefore we finally met.
I think we were actually at aconference dinner table arranged by Adamand his folk.
- Boulevard, brainstormingsession Februray 2008. `No, this was Kirk Patrick days.
- Exactly, and then westarted talking to each otherabout how it is that we build theseamazing products and companiesin Silicon Valley and eventually had theenormous good fortune to work togethernot by accident.
So with that, let's open toso I persuaded you to cometake a look at LinkedInand try out LinkedIn and you arrivedand there's roughly 400 peopleat the company.
What was the situation onthe ground as you found it?- So it was December 2008, we had about338 folks and I foundan incredibly talentedgroup, not surprisingly,that Reid and my predecessorand I had assembled,and even before my first dayI had already started tofamiliarize myself with the companythrough Reid, throughsome of the investorsthat were at Greylock, whereI was in EIR at the time,and had recognized thatthere was much more to itthan met the eye, which is interestingbecause to this day, whenpeople come inside the companyto interview or they want totalk about where we're headed,a common response is, wow I had no ideahow much was going on or howbig this could potentially be.
So I found an enormouslytalented group of peopleand a platform with almostunlimited potential withinthe specific context of creatingvalue for professionals.
Creating economic opportunityfor a global workforce.
I also found the situation where there,even though it was 338 people,there were a lot of differentthings taking place.
There were a lot of betsthat had been placedand Reid, for those of youwho haven't gotten a chanceto know him or firstprinciples, one of Reid'sfirst principles ispreserving optionality.
I think it's one of thereasons he's been so effectiveas an investor and itwas one of the reasonsI believe that LinkedInreached critical masswas because of the variousareas in which the companywas investing to seeif they could generatecritical mass and scale.
At some point, though, there comes a timewhen you have to ask yourselfessentially the questionif you could only do onething, what would it be?And that's another way of thinking abouthow you define your core and at that pointI think there was a good understandingof the potential avenuesthe company could takein terms of defining itscore, more specifically,but there was a fair amountof activity taking placefor a company of that size.
- And so what did you,cause part of the reasonwe open there is notjust the narrative arc,but it's the scaling arcbecause we had gotten to what,in our language, is essentially a villageand now it's a nation, interms of the size of the pace,and we were not actuallyparticularly well set upfor really getting the scale.
There were a bunch of different,kind of, internal thingsthat we're going to go throughsome of the specifics of,but how did you look atthat from a scale thing?What were things you said"this is things I need to doin the first hundreddays, this is what we needto be prepped in order todo, here's how we focus."Go back to then and think"Okay, this is what I saw"and these were my first hundred days"in terms of what I was doing."- So the first hundred dayswas a lot of listening.
So I had a chance to meet with essentiallyevery employee of thecompany, certainly every team,either through one onones or brown bag lunches.
Then we did a series of deep divesfor every product line and business lineand was just trying to learnas much as I possibly couldabout the company, the team,the direction it had beenheading, the direction wherepeople wanted it to go.
So there was a lot oflistening rather thandevelop a hundred day plan.
It was make sure I hada chance to understandwhere the people who knew the company bestthought it was goingand where it had been.
At that point, I feltwe were in a positionwhere we needed to makesome choices and decisionsabout defining the core, and based onmy previous experienceat a company like Yahoo,which was involved in alot of different businessesby design, I mean Yahoo helped organizethe internet for the masses.
That was one of the reasonsYahoo was able to generateso much value so quickly,but in the later yearsI think that same advantage,that same value propositionthat Yahoo had establishedbecame an Achilles's heelbecause it was involved in somany different business lines.
It invites a lot of competition withineach of those verticals and a companythat could focus exclusively on one thingwithin that vertical,say Google and searchor Amazon and eCommerce for example,I think has a much higherlikelihood of being successful.
So that was one of themost valuable lessonsI learned while I was at Yahooand LinkedIn was the nextcompany I had the chanceto be a part of, I didan EIR stint in between,and I wanted to make sure that we hada very clear sense of what our core wasand what it was we weretrying to accomplish.
And so one of the first things I didwith a leadership teamwas codify our mission,our vision, our addressable opportunity,our strategy, our priorities,our measurable objectives,our culture and our values.
And while that may sound like a lot,it's basically how a companydefines its narrativeand it fits all on one page.
And you don't have tolimit yourself to one pagebut it's an excellent forcing mechanismto be able to very clearly and simplyarticulate what a company is about,what it's trying to accomplish,how it wants to accomplish it.
- So go through a little bitof what those details arebecause that preparation for that scalewas one of the very firstthings I learned from you.
- So I guess I would startwith delineating clearlybetween mission and vision,which a lot of companieshave a tendency to use synonymouslyand I think it's a lost opportunity.
So for me, a mission isan over-arching objectivethat everyone at a companycan participate in.
It should be measurable and realizableand hopefully it's inspirational.
So our mission at LinkedInis to connect the world'sprofessionals, to make themmore productive and successful.
And when we talk aboutprofessionals in that context,we're talking about anaddressable opportunityof about 780 million knowledge workersand students, pre-professionals.
The vision is a dream.
It's true north and if it's done properly,is really designed to inspire peopleso they have something to reach for.
And historically, at leastfor me, a vision wasn'tnecessarily something you operationalizeor something you planaround, but it does providesome shared sense ofpurpose for an organization.
And one of the things that'sbeen so fun and excitingabout LinkedIn, andwe'll probably get to ita little bit later, is thatwe're now in a positionwhere we're trying tooperationalize our vision.
We're trying to operationalizeand manifest our dream,which I've never been a part of beforeand it's pretty cool.
So our vision is to createeconomic opportunityfor every member of the global work force.
There's over three billionpeople in the global work force.
So that's the vision.
So I'm seeing some hands, doyou go to folks during class?- [Voiceover] Yeah, I'mwondering, so a lot ofpeople talk about visionand mission being importantto the very core of thebeginning of the company,how do you know when it's time to eitherarticulate or do something like that?Why would you maybe waitto do that in this case?- Yeah, because the question's on the mic,so I'm not as sure aboutthe question as you.
- Okay, so when do you know it's timeto codify or define mission and visionand how often do you revisit?- [Voiceover] Yeah, why wait?- Why wait, so, I wouldn't wait.
So I think Reid and thefounders of LinkedInprobably had a pretty clear senseof where they wanted to takethe company whether or notit was codified as aspecific mission statementand remarkably you can go backand it's on SlideShare,it's up on LinkedIn,but you can go back and look at Series B.
- [Reid] Yeah, Series B.
- The Series B deck thatwas provided to Greylock.
It's crazy how accuratelyReid and the foundersarticulated where theywant to take the companymany, many years down the road.
It's not surprising if you know Reidand you know the team, but at any rate,whether or not they actually took the timeto codify a statement, theyhad a very clear understandingof where they wanted to go.
For me, coming out of Yahooand having seen that situation,I just felt it was reallyimportant to define thatas quickly and as early on as possible.
It just so happened that'swhen I joined the companyit was at 338 people.
If I was founding the company today,one of the first things Iwould do is codify a mission.
- Actually the key thing to understand isit wasn't that we didn'thave a mission and vision,although we didn't articulate themwith that kind of languagethat's useful, it's the questionof the format for how it isyou get a common languageacross people when you're at300 people going to 10,000.
That isn't actually as importantto get a common languagewhen you're 15 people.
Through common languageyou're all in the same room.
Hello, we're talking to each otherso that doesn't matter, butwhen you're beginning to planto get to scale, actually infact figuring out how it isyou're going to have 10,000people on the same language,that was the thing thatJeff looked around and said"Okay, we're not set up for that.
"We may have the missionand vision in mind"but we're not set up for that yet."And that was, like, basically what you didin the first two months, I think.
- Put another way, when yourorganization is 15 people,and you're essentiallyall in the same room,that's your office.
If you want to have anall hands and discussthe direction of the company or revisitthe direction of the company, you say"Hey everyone can I get you attention?"That's an all hands.
When you're 150 people, maybe you crowdeveryone into the cafeteria and maybeyou're all in the same floor or not,at 1500 people spreadacross multiple cities,you don't have that luxury.
And so things like your missionstatement, your strategy,your target audience, yourcore value proposition,your culture and yourvalues aren't codified,nature abhors a vacuum.
And so do strong leaders.
And so they will project into the vacuumwhat they bring to thetable, and their own wantsand dreams and desires and that's howhyper growth companies canstart to go off the rails,is that you don't have clarityaround your sense of purpose,what you're trying toaccomplish and how you wantto accomplish it, and sopeople start to projectinto that vacuum the way theythink things should be done.
And it becomes very difficultto keep a group of peopleon the same page as you achievegreater and greater scale that way.
- So let's shift to culture,because actually I thinkone of the, if you look at some of the arcof how you've, you know,some implicit thingsin terms of what Eric Schmidt said,some very explicit thingsReed Hastings said,some of the things thatBrian Chesky was saying,actually in fact--- It's quite a lineup you've had in here.
- Yes, yes.
- I should be attending the class.
- (laughs) But actuallyin fact, one of the,the visible but not oftencommented on secretsof how it is Silicon Valleycompanies achieve strong scaleis actually, they allhave some strong culture.
They define it differently,they implement it differently,but that creation ofculture, which createsa horizontal norm acrossthe various people,and so therefore you'renot completely beholdento vertical commandstructures as a way of yourexpanding your bandwidth andyour capacity organization.
The culture is one of thekey glues that does that.
And that's actually one of the thingsthat is a key part of the scaling,so you get there, we have a culturebut we haven't actuallyreally defined it in a wayto grow, what are the thingsthat you started doingto put a culture in placethat would enable scale?- So I think it starts with havinga shared understanding of what culture is.
So that could be a Rorschach test.
So we had a shared understanding.
I believe culture is thecollective personalityof an organization, and it's not onlywho you are, but who you aspire to be.
And the aspirationalcomponent is critical.
If you don't have theaspirational componentbaked in to the culture,what happens is you startto define the culturaldimensions of the companyand if you're notconstantly walking the walkon those dimensions,then when the leadershipgets up in front of the company and startspresenting the culture,people are rolling their eyesand they start cracking jokesabout the fact that it'sall kind of BS, becomeslike a Dilbert comic strip.
When you factor in thisnotion of aspiration,it provides and givesthe company permissionto not necessarily constantlybe doing everythingthat it ultimately wantsto do, there's thataspirational component,which is we want to reachand ultimately becomethat kind of company.
I think that's a reallyimportant part of it.
I would also clearly draw a distinctionbetween culture and values, which againsome companies have atendency to use synonymously,and values are nested within a culture.
Values help a companyto define its cultureand values, for me, arethe operating principlesupon which a company and its leadershipmake day to day decisions.
So there's culture and there's values.
By the time I joinedLinkedIn, at about 330 people,340 people, there was an increasing demandfor the culture and the first timeI was asked that question,I probably just made a joke,cracked a joke, likea Dilbert comic strip,because at the companiesI'd been at previously,it wasn't necessarily something that wasof great focus, where alot of energy was placed,and as the CEO of the company, I startedgetting asked that question more often,more and more increasingly which waswhat's our culture, and asI reflected on why peoplewere asking, I realized itcomes back to the same conceptthat we talked about a moment ago,which is nature abhors a vacuum,and when you don't have a codified cultureand you start to reachthis level of scale,you're hiring increases, therate of hiring increases,and at some point you're goingto be hiring and recruitingpeople from companies thathave already achieved scaleand there going to bringtheir own cultural baggagefrom the companies that they worked at,where they were inculcatedand they figured outhow to do things, and ifthe company doesn't havea codified culture, they'regoing to start manifestingwhatever the culture they've learnedand they're coming with.
This is particularly important when you'retrying to expand globallyand you're setting upnew offices that aren't in the same placeas the headquarters, andyou want to make surethat the leadership that'ssetting up the officesin these remote locationsare good cultural actorsbecause if that's not the case,they will set up the officewith their own culture and where they wantto take the company, andthat's a very good wayof leading to a bad outcome.
So, interestingly enough,there had already beenan exercise underwaywhen I joined the company,a bottoms up exercisewhich I thought was really interesting,that a guy named Arvind Rajan,who had lead our talent efforts,he was working on a projectwhere he had identified a few employeesand was asking themabout values and culture.
So when I got there, Iwanted that work to continueand I sat down with the leadership teamand we started talking aboutthe kind of organizationwe wanted to be a part ofand what kind of personalitywe collectively believethat the company should bemanifesting and espousing.
And we wanted to makesure that it was the kindof organization that wewould aspire to work atand that we would be inspired by.
And so there was a fairamount of time spenton word-smithing andgetting that stuff right.
Words have power, especially when you arelaying the foundation foran organization like this.
With regard to values, I find thatorganizations that havethe most effective valuesare those where the leadership,the founders, they areusing as values the thingsthey find themselves, themantras they find themselvesusing most often, becausewhat's critical in termsof manifesting culture andvalues is walking the walk.
So, it's easy to talk about this stuffand it's easy to paint yourwalls with your cultureand values and hand out mouse padsand those lamented cardsyou stick in your wallet,but at the end of theday, if the leadershipof the organization is notmodeling this behavior,if you're not recruiting people againstyou're culture and values,on boarding against it,developing your talentagainst it and evaultingperformance against it, that stuff'sreally not worth thepaper it's printed on.
And so you want to makesure that you've got buy infrom your leadership,that they believe in it,that they're going to model the behavior,that they're reinforcingit and you also havebuy in from your broader employeebase that also feels likethey were a part of defining that cultureand defining those values.
- And so, one key partof this is leadership.
So part of, again, oneof the things you startedpretty quickly doing and insisting,how do you develop leaders?Like what are the, who arethe key leaders going to be?Are they going to, are we going to defineand fit a culture that will then becomea horizontal norm, butalso let's create a waythat leaders are improving,we have second bench of leaders,how did you approach the, how do we growleadership within a companyas we're gonna scale?- So I guess it beginswith recognition thattwo of the most importantcontinuums an organizationleadership team need tonavigate as they achievecritical mass and scaleare first, this ideathat there's a continuumwith problem solvingon the one end and coaching on the other.
And a second continuum whereyou have tactical executionon one end and you have proactivestrategy on the other end.
And when cultivating anddeveloping a leadership team,one of the first thingsyou that you need to dois make sure the leadershipunderstands the importanceof coaching, and what happensis, more often than not,a startup, say, with15 people is successfulbecause the founders andthose founding employeesare really good at solvingproblems and getting shit done.
And so as the orginizationcontinues to scale,they knee-jerk to thataptitude, they knee-jerkto that skill set.
After all, it's one of thereasons they've been successful.
But as you're adding peopleinto the organization,as soon as they experience a problem,they come to you as a leaderand if you're knee-jerkingis solving the problemfor them, the next timethey experience theproblem, what do you thinkthey're going to do?They're going to come right back to you.
And so if you can takethe time to start toevolve along that continuumand recognize the factthat you have a greatskill at solving problems,but you need to really investin coaching other peopleto solve the problems for themselves,that's where you startto achieve real scaledleadership level, and it gets even betterwhen you can coach othersto coach their teams.
That's when you achieve true scale.
Separately, you've got tactical executionand proactive strategic thinkingand that requires time.
So to make that shift, you know,executing is something thatteams get really good atas they are achieving success,otherwise they wouldn'tbe having that success, andyou have to carve out cycles,you have to, I like tobake in about 90 minutesof buffer time in my dailyschedule, and that's timewhere I can catch mybreath, I can connect dots,I can synthesize, I cancatch up, I can haveextemporaneous discussions,that's time where I can startto think proactively, and ifyou're not carving out the timeto think proactively, it'sgoing to be really difficultto lead the organizationbecause you're going to beconstantly firefightingand constantly reacting.
So you want to be ableto take the time to startto think ahead and so youcan lead the organizationin that direction asopposed to, unfortunately,playing catch up with your competitors,because once you start playing their gameand reacting to their moves,it's basically game over.
So both of thesecontinuums require a shiftwhen you're a 15 personcompany and what it takesto be successful as a 15 person company,you better be good at problem solvingand getting shit done.
That's a huge part of it.
You have a vision, you have a concept,you got to build theprototype, you got to raisethe finance, you got to hire the team,I mean it'a boom, boom, boom.
As you start to get bigger,as you start to reachthat kind of scale of criticalmass, you need to startto begin that evolution to cross those,at least those two continuums.
- And one of the things that actuallykind of surprised me as somethingthat would never occur to me,you actually hired somecoaches into the company.
So why don't you say a little bit,'cause that was the kind of thing, like,precisely kind of the thing a start-up guywould go, "That's insane,this isn't a person"who's building a productthat we're shipping,"what the heck are wehiring this person for?"- It just goes back to the same concept.
You know, coaching,I've been at companies where you bring incoaches, or you bring in HR experts,or I mean, we've all been thereand it's an eye rolling experienceand it doesn't feellike it's worth the timeand the last thing in the world a start-upthat's just going wants to dois bring somebody in todo that kind of stuff.
But if you want to successfully scale,you're going to need a leadership teamunderneath you whose goingto help you make that happen.
Otherwise, you're not going to be ableto execute at scale.
And once you begin torecognize the importanceof coaching, ofmentorship, of development,of understanding and taking the timeto understand what someonewants to accomplishwith their career, theirhopes, their dreams,their fears, their insecurities,their vulnerabilities,you can start to play to their strengths.
You can start to compliment those areaswhere they need help.
And that requires time and it requirespeople that know how to coachand if you're fortunate enough,you'll have a leadership teamthat inherently is good at coaching.
I think you would be,I think it would be anunusual set of circumstanceswhere an organizationthat is just in the throwsof scaling would findthemselves in a situationwhere they couldn't benefitfrom professional coaches.
And so in our case, one example would bea guy named Fred Kaufman, who wrote a bookcalled Conscious Business,and I had a chanceto meet Fred at Yahoo, hewas brought in to help,and it was one of those situations whereI expected an eye rolling experience.
As a matter of fact, Idon't even think I wentto the first session that I was supposedto go to, and members of my team came backand said, "This guy'samazing," and they gave mea handout that had been, I think it wasan excerpt from the book,and it stayed on my deskfor a while and at somepoint I actually rememberflipping through it and Iwas like, this is different,and eventually the executive team at Yahoowas encouraged to spendsome time with Fredtogether and I was extremely impressedand we just developed a friendship.
I consider him a mentor, and so he's beenenormously influentialon my career ambitionsand what I'm hoping toaccomplish in the wayhe's provided some feedbackand guidance there.
And at one point, I justinvited him to join LinkedInand to be a part ofour team and he thoughthe was done ever workingfor a company again,but I think the platformis so uniquely positionedto help Fred accomplishwhat he wants to do,which is, for lack of abetter term, open-sourcinghis wisdom and hisexperience and the thingsthat he's written about and sharing thatwith the professional world,which he's in a positionto do uniquely on LinkedIn.
So, that would be anexample, and he's been,as you know, he's been invaluable.
- [Voiceover] Hey, Jeff?Yeah?- [Voiceover] So a lot ofthese people wouldn't have hadprofessional coaches in their careers,'cause a lot of them are students?And you say, well thisguy was really different,can you say different from what?Can you say what it was different--- Yeah, thanks John.
So, the way I havedescribed Fred in the past,so he was, he studiedeconomics at Berkeley,ended up at MIT, I think--- He was a Prof at MIT.
- He was a professor at MIT, Ibelieve he taught accounting,he ended up doing a bunch of workin organizational development.
He is like a Buddhist libertarianand I don't know that he would officiallydescribe himself aseither of those things,but if you think about firstprinciples in Buddhism,compassion and things of thatnature and you think aboutlibertarian ideals in termsof thinking about systemsand the way systems can maximize value,you combine that withhis economics background,he's about the most enlightenedperson I've met in business.
I've really never usedthat word with anyone elseI've worked with.
He's enlightened.
I know of no other way to describe Fredand it will be difficultfor you to fully appreciatewhat I'm describinguntil you meet with him,and then you'll sit down with himand he'll start talking andabout 10 minutes in to ityou're like "Whoa, that's. (laughs)"Can you say that again?"Every time I've spenttime with Fred, literally,without exception, every timeI've spent time with FredI have learned somethingthat changes my perspectivein some way, great or small.
How many people can you say that of?So, he's very unusual inthat respect, very unusual.
He's not a, he's not a traditional coachin that respect.
Interestingly enough, he founded a firmcalled Axialent, whichwas designed to helpcoach leaders and hewanted to change the waythe business world operatedby virtue of workingwith the leadershipteams of these companiesfor maximum scale, and hopefully helpthese leaders to become more consciousand more mindful.
It's been a lot of fun working with him,we're very fortunate tohave him at the company.
- One way to understand, kind of,run-of-the-mill coachesand Fred, who is unique,as a difference is typicallyrun-of-the-mill coaches go,here's how I try to give you energy,like yeah, you can solve that problem,let me reflect confidence toher or let me listen to youand then you solve the problem yourself.
That kind of thing.
Fred actually approachesit trying to give youconceptual tools inorder to solve problems.
So for example, one of the tools that Fredadded to his tool chestas a function of comingto work for you is that one of the things,the final thing you saidto him that got him toget off, he was basically ona sailboat in the Caribbean,which is what he wasplanning on spending all,he still does a lot offree diving, doing thatwas he said "Okay I guessI'll come work for you."You said, "Don't come work for me,"work for the mission."He was like, yes, actuallythat's the definitionof good leadership becauseyou're not actuallycreating a personalitycult, you're actuallysaying we're all workingfor this mission togetherand that's exactly thekind of conceptual toolthat every leader shoulduse when they're tryingto chart out creating a culture, right?And so hey says oh, I got towrite something about that.
- I'll give you another example, Mike.
One of our favorites thatthose of us at the companyuse quite a bit, so I'll make thisa little interactive, soit's in the context ofglobal maximum versus local maximum.
And it's virtually an unsolvable equationin terms of how do you get peoplewithin an organization to lift themselvesoutside of their respectivearea, their functional area,for example, their business line to try tomaximize value for the overall company.
It's a really, reallychallenging thing to solve for,so in all of the timehe spent with a lot ofgreat companies, some ofthe most valuable companiesin the world, no one's everreally been able to solve it,and so at this pointit's not about solvingthat equation, it's about doing it betterthan your competition.
So the way in whichFred tries to get acrosshow challenging this canbe, or at least the conceptis as follows.
So, any soccer fans in here in the class?All right, wow.
Just out of curiosity, any NFL fans?I'm doing a straw pull now.
Any baseball fans?Oh, for some reason all sitting here,there's a cluster of baseball fansaround John Lilly.
So, with regard to soccer, what isthe job of the goalie?For those of you that know soccer,you can explain it to someone,what's the job of the goalie?What is that?- [Voiceover] Managing the ball.
- [Voiceover] Manning the defense line.
- Preventing the ball from?- [Voiceover] Entering the goal.
- Entering the goal, that's a veryformal way of describing it, okay.
What were you saying?- [Voiceover] To manage the defense line.
- Manage the defense line, okay,another one of theresponsibilities of the goalie.
Any one else?No one else wants to?What's that?- [Voiceover] Provideconfidence to the team.
- Provide confidence forthe team, okay, yeah.
- [Voiceover] Start the offense.
- Start the offense withthe outlet pass, yep.
Yeah?- [Voiceover] Usually,the goalie is the captainfor a lot of teams so they're sort of likethe lead from behind.
- Okay, captain, lead from behind.
Anyone else? What's that?- [Voiceover] Win?- Have you ever heardthis exercise before?- [Voiceover] From Allen.
(laughing)The reason I ask is because no one's evergotten it right whohasn't heard it before.
- [Voiceover] I didn't getit right the first time.
- No one does, no one does, we all sayexactly what you, I mean this is a prettysophisticated group, thatwas a great set of answers.
It's usually prevent theother team from scoring.
So I like how nuancedthe responses were here.
The goalie's job is the same as the other10 players on the field,it's to win the game.
If the goalie's job isto prevent the other teamfrom scoring, then they're gonna bereally interesting in their statisticsin preventing goals.
Their job is to win the game.
If that means the other team scoresbut they can some howhelp out in other waysso that their team scores more goals,that's what they should be doing.
And it's the same forevery player on the field.
And as soon as you start to think your jobis solely and exclusively focused on yourresponsibilities thatpertains to your position,that's local maximum.
And if that's the way all11 players on the fieldare playing, you know whatthe outcome's gonna be.
But when a coach gets a group of peoplebuying into a program and a philosophylike a John Wooden, a Mike Krzyzewski,you know, some of the Nick Saban,amazing things happenand you get teams that win and win and winbecause they buy into the program.
They're buying into somethingbigger than themselves.
And for us, it's that sense of purpose.
And you know Jeff Beiseljust likes to talkabout the difference between missionariesand mercenaries.
It's another way oftalking about this ideaof an individual maximizingvalue for themselvesand seeing the world through their lensversus being the part, of being a partof something bigger than themselves.
So that's an exampleof the kind of insightthat Fred brings to thetable, and it's unusualfor a coach to be thatinsightful that often.
- And since we're onFred, let's go to this,we ordered the questions for this one,let's go to compassionate managementbecause Fred's book Conscious Business,high priest of capitalism,but compassionate management.
The Buddhism and the libertarianismis also something that youessentially take to heartin scaling an organization.
So compassionate management, what is it,why is it important, howdoes it help you scale?- Yeah, so I'll startby describing a story.
It was a personal experience that I hadwhich is when I decided to aspireto a first principle ofcompassionate mangement.
And then we can talk a littlebit about the definitionand why I believe it's soimportant and so valuable.
So, many years ago, I worked for someone,I was part of their staffmeeting and our boss,as a team, was growingincreasingly frustratedwith one of the team members who wasa really good person and brought a lotto their role but didn'tdo the role the waythe boss wanted them to do the role.
And so our boss got reallyfrustrated with themand the frustration cameacross and manifested itselfin, kind of, this passiveaggressivity where there werejokes made at my colleague's expenseand you could sensehow frustrated our bosswas becoming with this person.
And it was undermining theboss more than anything else.
And it created a lot ofdiscomfort in the roomwhenever it would happen.
And it wasn't constant,but it happened enoughthat it was uncomfortable.
So during a one on one that Ihad with my boss, my manager,on one particularoccasion I said you know,the next time you growfrustrated with our colleague,rather than make a joke at their expense,rather than, kind of, express frustrationand raise your voice, youshould go find a mirrorand yell at yourselfbecause that person's inthe role as a result of you.
It's your choice whether ornot they're doing that job,it's your choice as to howthey approach their job,if you don't like the waythey're doing their job,you can coach them to do it differently.
You can play to theirstrengths, you can put themin another role, you cantransition them out of the company.
But you leaving them in thisrole when you're increasinglyfrustrated, that's on you.
And so he thought about itand said let me give thatsome consideration, a coupleweeks later he came backand he said I gave it a lot ofthought and want to thank youbecause you were right, that'sexactly what I was doingand I'm going to change theway I'm approaching them,I'm going to play tothis person's strengths.
And as he was saying this, Irealized I was doing the exactsame thing to someone on my team.
I mean the exact same thing.
And in that moment I said I need tomanage more compassionately,I need to put myselfin the shoes of the peoplethat I'm working with.
I need to see the world through their lensand their perspective.
I need to coach themwhere I can coach them,I need to play to theirstrengths, I need to understandwhat it is that they'retrying to accomplish,I need to understandwhat it is that triggerstheir insecurities ortheir vulnerabilitiesand by virtue of being inthe role that I was in,that was my responsibility.
I say aspire to manage compassionatelybecause it's really hardbecause to truly be compassionate,first of all I'm not talkingabout conditional compassion,so after I'll talk aboutthis with a team, often timesthey'll come back in a few weeks and sayso I've got this down whenit comes to the peopleI really like working with,but there's this member of the teamI don't really like at alland I'm having trouble.
And compassion is not conditional.
That's when it's requiredmost, is when there's peoplethat you don't see eye to eye with.
And it's challenging becausewe get triggered so easily.
We'll be in a discussion with someone,they may say something that wefeel like is too aggressive,you become defensive,you put it back on them,and before you know it thewhole thing's escalating.
And often times, in thosesituations, rather than assumenefarious intention,which is what a lot of ushave a tendency to do whenwe've been triggered, when webecome emotional, we justassume the other person's beingterritorial or political orout to get us or trying toinsult us, when theycould be having a bad day.
Or you may have said somethingthat triggered somethingthat they experienced longbefore they ever worked with you.
Or maybe you're talking aboutsomething that they're notas knowledgeable aboutand so they start to feela little bit insecure.
There's a litany of reasons theperson may be on the attack.
And when you start to feelthat emotion to the extentyou can become a spectatorto your own thoughts,especially when you become emotional,which is very, verychallenging but doable,then you can start toask yourself why are youresponding this way,what's triggering you,and where are they coming from.
You can put yourself intheir shoes, see the worldthrough their lens, andyou'll be amazed at the extentto which you can change thedirection of that discussionand that conversation orthat potential argument.
One thing that's important to note hereis that there's a differencebetween compassion and empathy,which most people, in atleast Western society,have a tendency to use synonymously.
Empathy is feeling whatanother person feels.
Compassion is a moreobjective form of empathywhere you see the worldthrough their lens,you understand how they feeland then you're in a positionto do something about itso that you can alleviatetheir suffering, for example,if they're suffering.
And the way the Dalai Lamadescribes this is this reallypowerful visualization, notthat it will ever happento any of us here in SiliconValley, but if you werewalking along a mountaintrail and you came uponsomeone who had a boulder on their chest,and felt this sense of suffocation,the empathetic repsonsewould be to feel the samesense of suffocation,which would render you helpless.
Now you're experiencingwhat they're experiencing,The compassionate response is to recognizethat they're suffering,that they're suffocating,maybe that happened toyou at some point, and toactually do everything within your powerto alleviate that suffering,to take the boulderoff their chest, and that's areally fundamental differenceand often times you hearpeople talking aboutthe importance of beingempathetic and empathyis certainly a fundamentalbuilding block in termsof compassion, recognizingwhat another person's feeling,but you want to be able tomaintain that space so you canactually do something about it.
That's part of the key.
So this all goes into this conceptof managing compassionatelyand I think if organizationscan learn to do this at scale,it's a complete game changer.
- And how, first, twosub questions on this.
First one is how doescompassionate managementhelp you get the scale?How does it help younavigate the progressionto a scale organization?- That's a great question.
So, I've never been askedabout it specificallyin the context of scale.
So I think it comes backto this notion of coachingand how organizations thatsuccessfully scale are investingin their leadership andhelping their leaderslead their teams and helpingthem coach their teamsso that they can lead withoutthem being in the room.
And to the extent you can startto manage compassionately,you are reducing conflict.
And every time there's aconflict, there's gonna be churnand the resolution of thatconflict, the reconciliationof at least two parties thataren't on the same page.
It takes a lot of time and alot of cycles and over time,if that conflict continues tobuild, if it's not resolved,it corrupts the foundationupon which people are buildingtheir relationship anda huge part of scaling,and we've talked about thisquite a bit, in my opiniona huge part of successfullyscaling, I'm talking aboutsome of the most valuablecompanies in the world,is trust amongst theleaders and trust amongstthe employees of that organizationwho've worked togetherover time, that have each other'sbacks, that have developeda sense of shorthand with one another.
They can, to some extent,predict how someone'sgonna respond to certain situations.
And it is beyond a competitiveadvantage when you've gotthat kind of trust, when youhave that kind of shorthandand compassion helps develop that.
Compassion helps reinforce the factthat we're all on the same team.
That we're all in this tryingto realize the same mission,the same vision, manifest and executeagainst the same strategy.
So that's where I thinkit can be a game changer.
- I think this answers the second part,but I'm gonna ask it anyway just in casethere's anything you would add, which ishow does, most people, when they hearcompassionate managementtend to think squishy-feely,people like you becauseyou're being compassionate,they think it tends to be adistraction away from a focuson results, and actuallya competitive advantagein winning games, so that'spart of the reason why theytend to discount it, becausethey tend to have thismodel of no action, in factunless you're just totallybarbaric about going forresults, nothing else matters.
But actually in factcompassionate managementhelps get to results.
And some of that you justcovered, but if there was anythingyou wanted to add to that,that was actually one of thingsI thought was a usefullens that most people don'tfrequently think about on this.
- I mean, at the end of theday, I think one of the mostimportant drivers oflong term value withinan organization is the speed and qualityof its decision making.
And you'll look back oncompanies that have createdoutsized value and they'regoing to be able to counton one, two hands the numberof decisions that changedthe trajectory of that company.
The challenge is that that'sretrospectively that they canidentify which decisions those were.
When you cultivatetrust, when you cultivatecompassionate management, you put yourselfand your team in aposition where you can bemaking high quality decisions faster.
When you're not being compassionate,you're constantly thinkingabout why somebodyhas the intention or themotivation that they do.
Why they disagree with you.
You know, where they'recoming from, what they'retrying to accomplish at your expense.
And you start to multiplythat through an organizationof hundreds, if not thousands, of peopleand you can do the math.
I mean, it becomesprohibitively expensive in termsof the cycles that couldotherwise be spent trying to fightagainst the competitor,or trying to make a moreinformed decision or abetter decision, or revisita decision or learn and grow.
So I think it just buildsa very strong foundationregardless.
Reid mentioned anotherreally important pointthat's worth callingout, which is this ideathat compassion is a softskill, or it's touch-feelyor it's an eye roller,this new age concept.
The strongest people I knoware the most compassionate.
True, unconditionalcompassion requires almostsuperhuman strength and self-confidenceand a sense of who you areand not allowing other peopleto get you to question thatand not falling preyto vulnerabilities orinsecurities and those triggers,but rising above it and putting yourselfin the other person's shoes.
I'll give you anotherexample of where it requiresreal strength, and one of themost common questions I getis if you're managingcompassionately, how do you everlet anyone go?That's not a compassionate thing to do.
It turns out, when someone'sstruggling in their role,the least compassionate thing you can dois have them stay in the role.
And for those of you thathave ever worked at a companyor been in business, andyou've seen someone struggle,it's actually a reallydifficult thing to watchbecause they lose their self-confidence,they lost their sense ofself and they start to becomea shadow of who they used to be.
And that energy builds on itself.
And they are taking thatenergy to their team,they become less effective,you become less effectiveby virtue of letting thatperson remain in that roleand they're taking thatenergy home to their families.
And so, by virtue of tryingto turn the other wayand allow that to persistbecause you don't want to makea hard decision, you makeit worse and you increasethat person's suffering.
So in that particular instance,the most compassionatething you can do, A, youcould try to help themlearn the skills they needand provide the coachingthey need to be effective in the role.
But to the extent that's not possible,you want to transitionthem out as gracefullyand constructively andcompassionately as possible.
And for anyone that thinksthat's a touchy-feely thing,or a soft skill, try itsome time because it's oneof the hardest thingsyou'll ever do as a manager.
- [Reid] So, um.
- Yeah, a question?- [Reid] Oh, yeah?- [Voiceover] How doescompassionate management fit withdiversity on multiple levels,not just ethnic and racial,but like, how do you get peoplethat grew up in a certainsocio or historicalcontext to move beyond thatand engage in a compassionaterelationship with peoplethat have a very differentunderstanding of the world?- So I think, in part throughexperience, and I thinkwhat you just articulatedis one of the most importantreasons to be buildingdiverse and inclusive teams.
So you can learn moreabout how other peoplesee the world.
And if you're surroundingyourself with a homogenous wayviewing things, you're nevergoing to be in a positionwhere you can betterunderstand someone witha different perspective.
And, you know, we weretalking earlier aboutone of the most importantthings you can do to maximizelong term value is make highquality decisions quicklyor with speed and tomake the right decisions,you want the rightpeople around the table.
You want people whoare going to poke holesor play devil's advocateand shine a light on thingsyou never could have imaginedor envisioned by virtueof their own experiencesthat compliment your own.
And if you're just surroundedwith clones and mini-mes,you're all gonna be saying the same thing.
It creates this cacophonyof oneness, or sameness,and you'll have nochance to be competitivein that situation.
So there's a guy on my team,a guy named Mike Gamsonand he was saying he's notinterested in building outa diverse team because it's envogue or it's the right thingto do, he's interested indiversity because he likes to win.
You know, I thought that was a great line.
- And actually, as much asI like the phrase that I'venever heard before, cacophony of oneness.
- [Jeff] I just made thatup, just came up with that.
- I like the phrase, actually in fact,part of the whole questionis usually in winningyou actually have to be highly adaptiveand if you don't have somediversity of skill setand perspective that iscommunicating and collaborating welltogether, usually you willnot adapt to some curvethat's coming.
Now, it's not universaladaptives to everything,but it's a, essentially like a battle lineof some diversity ofskill sets, knowledge,reflexes and then crosscoordination and collaborationin order to figure out how do we adapt,how do we learn as anorganization in orderto solve this problem.
- [Voiceover] Especiallywhen you put skillon like a global level,right, we have culturaland like cultural norms about laborright, and the relationship between them.
- Yeah, and that's why the culturewas the first part ofthis, because it's thecross connection andthen it's a question ofokay, how do you get that culture to alsobe highly performant inadapting and scaling.
- And how do you allow for subculturesto develop in a constructive way?So you were just mentioning this ideaof managing a global organization,we're in 30 cities around the world.
When you travel to any LinkedIn cityanywhere in the world, youknow you're at LinkedIn.
It's really special.
I think it's an enormouscompetitive advantage.
You also know you're in Mumbai,or you're in Beijing, or you're in Londonbecause there is thissense of allowing theselocal cultures to flourish as well.
And the same holds, it's an interestingmetaphor for us asindividuals and employees.
So we want to continue to build towardsthis over-arching culturethat we've definedfor ourselves atLinkedIn, but we also wantto celebrate individualityand we want to celebratediversity and we wantto celebrate the thingsthat make us different.
And you've got to constantly be strivingfor that balancing act.
- So shifting back to these questions,great question, so what did you trackas changing at LinkedIn when you wentfrom 338 people to athousand to five thousandto 10 thousand, and as a partial prompt,how did your sense of howyou use communicationsinternal of the company?How did that change and what was theevolution of that tool asa way of keeping a unified,you know, focus and setof priorities and actions?- So, the change partcomes back to somethingthat we described and discussed earlier,which is this notion of connective tissueand communication asan organization scales.
So when you're all in the same room,it's much easier comparedto when you're in30 cities around the world.
So one of the devicesthat I think we've usedto great effect, andit's not just anecdotal,we do an employee voice survey,we've been doing it bi-annually now formany, many years and one of the thingsthat consistently scoresthe highest is the factwe do an all-hands every other week.
So I do an all-companyall-hands every other week.
It started, literally in the cafeteria.
We got all 338 employees together,and today it is broadcast to all 30 citiesin which we operate and if teams are notin time zones wherethey can watch it live,they tape it and theyget together and they doa happy hour at the end of the week.
And in that all-hands, we focus onour priorities, our operating priorities.
And we walk through what's happeningat the company, for better and for worse.
And it's completely transparent.
And that device has proven to beinvaluable in terms of the repetitionnecessary to ensure we'reall on the same pagewith regard to thenarrative, mission, vision,value prompts, etc.
Shining a light on thethings that are workingso we can leverage best inthe straight up practices,so we can celebrate what's working,so we can provide theright kind of recognitionand gratitude, andperhaps most importantlyto identify when things are not workingso we can get everyone in the companychipping in and trying to help figure outhow we can improve those situations,how we can learn from them.
So I think the all-handshas been invaluable.
The biggest change thatI've noticed at variousinflection points thatprobably would not betoo far afield from the numbers that youthrew out and one of the mostvaluable lessons I'velearned and one of the mostimportant values that we havethat needs to be reinforcedis what we describe asacting like an owner.
And I believe the mostsuccessful companiesat scale are companieswhere individual employeestalk about the challengesthe company facesor the opportunitiesthe company faces as weand not the company.
And when they start toget frustrated or botheredby something, and acompany that's going toultimately, I think, inevitablyexperience challenges,they're gonna say why does the companydo it this way?As if the company issomething in the distance,it's this faceless bureaucratic machineand it's not them.
We're the company, theleadership runs the company.
I'm not talking aboutme or even my directs,I'm talking about thepeople underneath themconstantly reminding our vice presidentsthat they run the companyday in and day out.
And it's important to remind them of thatbecause they're eachgoing to project their ownbaggage from when theyworked at large companieswhere they didn't feel likethey were a part of things,where they didn't feel likethey could change the directionof the company, and Ivowed that if I was everin a position where I wasultimately responsiblefor a company, that peoplewould always feel likethey could make a difference,no matter how big we got.
And so reinforcing that, it's inevitable.
You go from, I mean make up the numbers,you go from 100 to 500to 1,000 to 5,000, etc.,and at each one ofthose inflection points,you can just feel it.
I mean it's tangible.
People start to feellike it's this machinerythat's beyond their control,when it's not, ever.
As soon as you start to thinkit's beyond your control,guess what happens, it'sbeyond your control.
As soon as you startto think like a victim,and not like someone who can ultimatelyinfluence the outcomes,that's exactly whatyou become.
So if you can flip thatmodel, and it's not just aboutsaying this, it's about reinforcing thatit's the way it works,where people then feel likethey can express the thingsthat they're frustrated about,they can come forward with solutionsand you will practice those solutions.
You'll execute against those ideas.
That reinforces the factthat we're all owners.
We're all stakeholders,this is our company,it's we.
So I think that's animportant recognition.
- I think that's probably,unless there was somethingyou wanted to add to the building LinkedInto a global company, I just figure 'causeI think we covered that,what are the unique lessonsthat you've encountered from LinkedInbeing a combination of both a consumerand an enterprise company having bothaspects to it?- One, if you an pullit off, it's fantastic.
Very high degree ofdifficulty because that's notone thing, it's two things.
And the more quote on quote "things"you try do to as a company, the higherthe degree of difficulty.
And it's probablyexponential at some pointin terms of the, each incremental thingyou add to the company.
It's just that many morethings you need to communicate,that many more thingspeople need to internalizein grok, that many more things people needto execute against, itjust creates more and moreroom for error.
So in a perfect world,your company would onlyproduce one thing and it would do itwith the smallest team possibleand it's just easier.
It's just not realistic if you're going tocontinue to scale.
Although, times have changed.
I mean, you see what WhatsApp was capableof doing and before that, Instagram, andMark seems to have apattern developing herewhere he's acquiringthese kinds of companies.
So things have changed, itdoesn't require the samenumber of resources, thesame amount of capitalto achieve certainscale, it doesn't requirethe same portfolio approach to achievecertain kinds of scale byvirtue of technologies,by virtue of how globalthe world has becomeand interconnected.
But, if you're going to tryto do more than one thing,it goes back to knowingwho you are, what you'retrying to accomplish, and thatstarts with your narrative.
We are the stories that we tell.
So storytelling is the oldest knownform of communication, right?Cave drawings, and that's just innate.
It's just part of whowe are as human beings.
And we communicate through narrative.
So your mission, yourvision, your strategy,your value prop, yourculture, your values,that's an organization's narrative.
And you need to define that and codify itand reinforce it and one ofthe most important thingsthat we've reinforced from very early on,recognizing that we aretrying something witha higher degree of difficulty,an enterprise businessbuilt on top of a consumer web platform,is our most important value.
We have six values andthe first value is thatour members come first.
And when you have an enterprise culture,an enterprise salesculture, that would notnormally be the case, thatyour members come firstor that some consumerweb platform comes first.
What would come first is the next saleand hitting quota and results.
And results matter to us.
It's an important part ofour culture and demandingexcellence is one of ourmost important values,but it starts with members firstbecause we're unable to execute againstany of our enterprise business linesif we don't have a flourishingmember-driven ecosystem.
So our members come first.
And the only way we'vebeen able to pull offthis idea of buildingenterprise businesseson top of a consumerweb platform is becausethe person that runs thoseenterprise sales forces,thousands of people, recognizes that ourmembers come first and he is one of themost steadfast leaders of the companywhen it comes to manifestingculture and values.
And trust me, he is notjust talking the talk.
He manifests it in quiteliterally everythingthat he does.
He models the behavior constantly,to the point at sometimesyour're just like really?But over time, you startto recognize and appreciatehow strong a competitiveadvantage you can buildas a result of that.
And his name's Mike Gamsonand Mike likes to say he'snot hiring sales peopleor sales leaders, he'shiring business peopleand business leaders.
And he's not just sayingit, he's actually doing itand that's one of thereasons we've been ableto pull that off.
It's still very challenging as you know.
- [Reid] Yeah, so I justthought I'd ask a question,oh, go ahead Chris.
- [Voiceover] I was justgonna say, I was just curiousif there were other things,like people with booksor any other thingsthat have been as usefulor similar levels of usefulnessto break often to you?- Useful in any capacity?Or useful in a specific context?- [Reid] Scaling companies, I'm gonna sayscaling companies because it's the class.
- Okay, you're saying scaling companiesand you're saying in thecontext of being a CEO?- [Reid] Being a CEO is fine, it's part ofscaling a company.
(laughing)- Conscious business would have beenone of the books, second book would beArt of Happiness, so that's Howard Cutlerand it's on the teachingsof the Dalai Lamaand that was the book where I learnedwhat compassion truly meant as opposed toanecdotally, you know,projecting my own experiences.
That book was a game changer.
That book has been on my nightstand since1998and I've only read it once cover to cover.
But I just like seeingit because it brings meright back to the messages that I learnedand took to heart.
And then a third book,which does touch on scalebut in a counterintuitive way,and Reid is very familiarwith the individual,a book called Mountains Beyond Mountainsand it's the biography of Paul Farmer,who created an organizationcalled Partners in Health.
And Paul grew up extremely poor,very impoverished in theSouth of the United States,was brilliant and had gone to Harvardstudying medicine, becominga doctor, a professor.
And one summer when he was a kidhe worked on an orchardand he worked alongside some Haitians,and he was so struckby their valuesand what was important to themand they way they lived their life.
He never forgot it.
And when he became a doctor,recognizing that CentralHaiti is literally,for those that don't know,the poorest place inthe Western Hemisphere.
He started commuting fromCambridge, Massachusettsto Central Haiti andhelping one person at a timewith their health care,and then he would fly back.
He was doing this on weekends.
It sounds insane.
And as if that wasn't insane enough,word started to spread,there were so many peoplethat started showing up,that he recognized heneeded to build a facilityand generate moreresources and so he startedthis organization calledPartners in Health.
And one of the partnersand founders, co-founders,was a guy named Jim Kim,who now is the presidentof the World Bank,which is the moral of the story,it turns out that in helpingone person at a time,I mean, he would help one person at a timewhere he would hike eight hours each wayto help one person in Central Haiti,even after he hadestablished the facility.
He would hear aboutsomeone who was very sickwho needed him and he would hike on footeight hours in one direction to help them,hike back, take care ofthe rest of the peoplethat were at the facility andthen fly back to his day job.
And it turned out thatthey learned so much abouthelping the poorest among us,in terms of their health care,in terms of tuberculosis,in terms of malaria,in terms of HIV.
Jim eventually went down to Peru,he did the same thing.
Word spread to certain African countries.
I think Russia picked up on this.
They just fundamentally changed the waythat the World Health Organization,the way the United Nations,the way countries thought abouttaking care of their poorest.
Because historically, thecalculus had always beenit's not worth it from a returnon investment perspective.
And by virtue of helpingone person at a time,they completely changed the game.
And so the lesson there,and this is why it's abit counterintuitive,is coming out of Yahoo I always thoughtit was about massive scaleand working on platformsthat reached hundreds,back then it was hundreds of millions,now it's billions of people,and what I learned from that bookis sometimes you canscale on a global basisby helping one person at a time.
And that was a complete eye opener for me.
- And by the way, justthe parallel for the classto think about this is frequently the waythat you get to things at scaleis you start with things that don't scale,and remember what Brian Chesky was sayingabout what he did early in New York,so there's this patternof starting with things,sometimes the things that don't scale,and then you getting the thing to scale.
And this was the communityhealth care worker model,and so forth that Partners in Health did.
So, I'm gonna ask you one more question.
I have a stack, so in case there arelimited questions from the audience,'cause we have about 20 minutes,then I will go back to that.
After I ask my question,I'm gonna ask Allen to ask the questionthat he would've asked that I haven'tin this hour. (laughs)Right, since he's also beenon this journey. (laughs)- [Jeff] You've been here the whole time?- [Voiceover] Almost.
(laughs)- [Jeff] It's not like he'seasy to miss, by the way.
- So, I'm giving you a minuteto be on the spot, or a second to prep.
Being a Product CEO,why is it so critical to successin these companies in the Valleyto be a Product CEO,and what is the way that youdo that effectively?- So this is a leading question,'cause I was hired to be the CEO,in part because I am a product person,and Reid and I both sharea very strong convictionthat the most valuable companiesin Silicon Valley, the mostvaluable Internet companies,are lead by product people.
You could have been a product manager.
You could've been an engineer.
You could have beenanything that would havedeveloped your product sensibility,but at the end of the day these companiescreate value through their products.
So I don't think it's a big stretch.
I think the further removed a CEO,or the leader of an organization,is from the product itself,is from the core of how value is generatedwithin the company,the more challenging it's gonna befor that company to create valuesustainably over time.
And sometimes you probably have situationswith founders thatcreated that first product,and then unfortunatelythere's too many layersthat develop between themand the day to daydevelopment of that product.
And I think the most valuable companies,I mean, Steve Jobs, Mark Zuckerberg,Jeff Bezos, Elon Musk, you know the names.
They're all product people.
First and foremost,they're about products.
In Jeff's case it's aboutproduct and customers.
I mean, that is his product.
He said, I just shared this the other day.
It was a quote from way backwhen Amazon was first startingand he said, "Amazon wasn't a bookstore,"it's a customer store."I thought that was pretty cool.
- [Voiceover] I wasgonna ask about hiring.
I mean, obviously LinkedIn had growntremendously over the pastsix years, seven yearswhen you've been CEO.
And you've always said at company meetingsthat talent was our number one priority,number one principle, touse the word we often do,so how do you thinkabout the changing needsfor hiring as a company passesthe thousand person markand now is at the tenthousand person mark?How is the role of hiring different nowthan it was when you started?- In some regards it'snot different at all,and I'll come back to that in a second,and in other regardsit's vastly different.
So the machinery thatgoes into hiring at scaleonce you achieve, you know, critical mass,when you're at 15 peopleand you're hiring single digit peopleto add to the team,that's something the team can do.
When you're at 150 peopletrying to scale to 300and you need double thesize of the company,at some point you're gonna needto have dedicated recruiters.
When you're at 300 andyou're growing to 3,000,you're gonna need sourcers,and then you're gonna needpeople to support them,and you're gonna needrecruiters and schedulers,and the apparatus, the machinery,behind recruiting at scaleis quite substantial,so in that regard that changes.
That's very logical.
What shouldn't change,but unfortunately does,is once you recognize who you areas an organization,your culture, your values,the more you can hire againstyour culture and valuesand not compromise,I think the more likelyyou are to be successful.
And where a lot of hyper growthcompanies go off the railsis they need to grow from 150 to 300to keep pace with the competition,to develop that nextbreakthrough innovation,to hire sales people to fulfill demand,to hire people in G&amp;A functions,to be able to support therest of the organization,and without putting butts in the seats,there may be a fear that it's gonnalimit the growth of the organization,and so what happens inevitably,is where as you've set the barvery clearly and explicitlyin terms of where you wannahire, who you wanna hire,the quality of people, the cultural fit,you start to compromise.
So for example, you'll see someone,they'll come in and on paper,LinkedIn profile for example,they have great skills,but for whatever reasonduring the interview processyou got the sense they'renot gonna be a cultural fit.
Where an organization's headed for troubleis when you sit aroundwith your hiring team,your hiring committee,whatever decision makingprocess you have for recruiting,and someone says, look atthe skills of this person.
We interviewed them,they're not a cultural fit,but we'll make it work.
We'll coach them.
There'll be a process of osmosis here.
They'll just figure out how we do things.
And talk to folks who havehired in that situationand they'll tell you thatinevitably it did not work out.
It actually created a bunch of problems.
And where an organization's in a positionwhere it can scale effectivelyis the next time that conversation is had,it's, look at the skills of this person.
They're not a cultural fit,let's move on to the next candidate.
And when your team ishaving that conversationwithout you needing to be in the room,that's when you're on to something,and that's when you can truly scale,at least scale the hiring process.
- [Reid] Back first, you.
- [Voiceover] So when itcomes to managing people,like I believe LinkedIn has the smartestpeople in the world,I'm just curious about how do you managethe smartest people?How do you make them (too low to hear).
- How do you make them think what?- [Voiceover] How do you make themdo things that you feel thecompany should be doing?- [Reid] How do youmanage very smart people?I think that's the simple--- Well the reason Iwas asking the phrasingis because I think it's helpful,so you said, "How do Imake them do the things"that the company needs them to do?"(laughs)- [Voiceover] Like you have a visionor you have an idea of wherethe company should be going.
- Yeah, yeah,so did you hear laughterbehind your left shoulder?- [Voiceover] I did, yes.
- So it was John, Idon't even need to look.
(laughs)And my guess is it was John,and John's laughing because ofwhen you said, "How doyou make them do things?"You don't make verysmart people do anything.
What you do is, hopefully,you inspire them to want to take action.
And it's the differencebetween leaders and managers.
Managers tell people what to do,oftentimes without very effective results,leaders inspire them to do it.
And I've been very fortunatefrom a pretty young ageto have the ability to recognizereally talented people.
People way more talented than I am,way smarter than I am,and once you can recognize those folks,if you can get an understandingof what they want to accomplish,and you can find alignment betweenwhat you're trying to accomplishand what they're trying to accomplish,and you can authentically get acrosswhy it's such a strong fit,why their skill set, theirunique set of skills,their intelligence, their resourcefulness,their passion, their compassion,how it can be brought to bear,to create this huge amountof value on a global basis,hopefully they're gonna want to do that,and hopefully they'll buy into that.
And that's very differentthan telling them what to do.
And especially with the kinds of peopleyou were describing, likethe smartest people you know,they're not gonna respond very wellto being told what to do.
- [Reid] You, yes.
- [Voiceover] You mentionReid's first principleof preserving marginality,what are some of you first principlesthat you always come back towhen you're facing some sort ofcomplex decisions?- So, managing compassionatelyis my first principle of management,but you asked a very specific question,when I'm facing a complex decision.
- [Voiceover] Somethingyou just come back to.
- To not make a decision before I'm ready,which took a long time to realize.
Sometimes you won'talways have that luxury.
Sometimes you're gonna have tomake a decision before you're ready to,but if you're not forcedto make a decisionbefore you're ready to make a decision,give it time.
Give it time.
And I think too often, people rush it.
They don't have the rightset of information yet.
I'm not talking about analysis paralysis.
I'm not talking about having the perfectamount of information.
There's no such thing as perfection,but oftentimes effective decision makers,they have pretty strong conviction.
They're relying on patternmatching and experiences.
They're relying uponpeople around the table,that diverse set of decisionmakers and influencers,and they know, they know,and they'll make the rightdecision more often than not,not gonna make the rightdecision every time.
But if they're not feeling it,it's okay to hit the pause button,and say I'm not readyto make this decision.
And I'm not sure everyonefully appreciatesthe fact that they have that ability.
They have that opportunity.
Also, once you make a decision,if you made the wrong decision,don't be afraid to admit it,learn from it,and then move in a different direction.
And that's another common mistake,which is you feel like asthe person responsible,or the leader, or the manager,that you can't show any vulnerability.
You have to be perfect.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
The last thing in the world I wantis to be surprised.
If teams understand thatthings aren't performingthe way they had expected,I want to know that as soon as possible,so we can do something about it,and I want to model thatbehavior for my team.
- By the way, the one,I think that's perfectlycoherent and a good answer,but the one thing I actually learnedfrom PayPal days was,when you're in fast moving, intense,competitive situations,which startups are,the time frame that youhave to make a decisionis the time frame where you will notremove your foot from completelydepressing the accelerator.
So part of the decisioning I do is,how much time do I have,such that I maintainentire forward motion?And sometimes it's, Imake a decision right now.
And one of the things Ipicked up from PayPal was,I will frequently makea decision right nowand then say, do I havetime to rethink it?Right? And then, Oh I have until tomorrow.
It's like, oh, okay, great.
I'm gonna rethink it until tomorrow,which then plays in to what you said,but it's an interesting play.
- Another corollaryis that at some point youdo need to make a decision.
The worst possible thing you can dois just allow it to sit there,and it just builds over time.
And we're talking aboutscaling organizations,those things, they compound and compound.
So after leaving Yahoo, I became an EIR.
I didn't know if I was burnt out on Yahoo.
It was tough going towards the end.
It was an extraordinary experience,and I wouldn't trade itfor anything, invaluable,but towards the end itwas pretty challengingon a number of different fronts.
And I didn't know if I was burnt outon that specific situation,or I was burnt out on operations,so I wanted to take sometime off, I was an EIR.
And then the first day, literally,this sounds like I'm just making this up,but it's a true story.
The first day I set foot at LinkedIn,I couldn't wipe the smile from my face,and one of the reasons wasbecause we could make decisionsin minutes or hours that in previous rolesI found companiesrequiring weeks or months,if they ever made the decision at all.
And to this day, when we'reable to make a decision,a good decision, we're ableto make it in a timely way,I start smiling to myself.
I'm thinking about, that's how you do it.
Speed and quality of decisions,I can't emphasize it enough.
- [Reid] Second guy onthe aisle here. Yeah.
(speaking too soft to hear)- Sorry?- [Reid] Elaborate on it.
- Oh, elaborate on it? Oh, economy graph.
So I mentioned earlier thatwe're doing some stuff at LinkedInthat I've never done before,which is trying to operationalizeour vision, the dream,and historically for methe vision is just that,it's true north, it's a dream,it's not something you actually do.
And a few years ago we recognized that wewere growing our membership fasterthan we had anticipated,so when we originally codified the missionto connect the world's professionals,we had 32 million memberswhen I first joinedDecember 2008.
We recently surpassed 400 million peoplewho signed up for LinkedIn.
And a couple of years ago it became clearwe were gonna be on a trajectoryto exceed the midwaymark to that 780 million.
And at that time, granted,once we've connected theworld's professionals,making them moreproductive and successful,there's plenty of workto be done on that front.
It's not just about connectingand signing people up.
But we did start askingourselves what would come next,and where we ended up wasbringing our vision to life,this idea of creating economic opportunityfor every member of the global workforce,all three billion people,not just knowledgeworkers and professionals,or students, everyone,everyone in the global workforce.
And so the way in which we decidedto go about that,was by essentially digitally mappingthe global economy across six dimensions.
The six dimensions thatwe believed LinkedInwas in a very uniqueposition to execute against.
So the economic graph would meanhaving a profile on LinkedInfor every member of the global workforce,all three billion plus people.
It would mean having a presencefor every company in the world.
When you include small,medium size businesses,there's about 60 to 70 millioncompanies in the world.
It would mean having adigital representationfor every available job opportunityoffered by those companies.
There's roughly, weestimate on the order of20 million jobs that wouldbe digitally accessiblethat are open right now on a global basis.
A digital representationfor every skill requiredto obtain the jobs offeredby those companies,tens upon tens of thousands of skillsthat you could accessthrough standardized data.
A digital presence for every university,higher educational organization,or vocational training facilitythat would enable individuals toacquire the skills to get the jobsoffered by those companies.
And a publishing platformthat would enable every individual,every company, and every universityto share their professionallyrelevant knowledgeto the extent they'reinterested in doing so.
And then we would wanna take a step backand allow all forms of capital,intellectual capital, working capital,of course human capital,to flow to where itcould best be leveraged.
And in doing so, we're hoping we can liftand transform the global economy.
So that's the economic graph.
So when we originallystarted talking about thatit was a vision.
And to some extent itsounded like science fiction.
And what happened was over timeit actually started to manifest itself.
So we started investingthe infrastructure,the people, the teams, wemade some acquisitions.
And what changed for uswas asking what it would taketo operate at economic graph scale.
And I'll give you a perfect example,when I first joined the companywe has somewhere in the order ofsix to eight thousand jobsthat were posted on LinkedIn.
And at some point along the way,we identified an addressable opportunityfor professional jobs, highvalue, white collar jobs,roughly 350,000,and that grew to about half a million,that was the addressable.
We hit about 300 plus thousandand on our way to that number,I think we were around 250,000,I had a meeting with theteam responsible for that,and as I had mentioned on anumber of different occasions,I said, don't forget, yougotta start thinking abouthow we can get all the jobs,20 million,and I turned to leave the roomand it occurred to me,and I had said it on multiple occasionswith this specific teamand this specific context,they just thought it was a platitude.
They thought I was just kindof throwing it out there,and so I turned around and walked back in.
I said, "You do realizeI'm serious about this?"You could feel it all,like for whatever reasonin that moment it finallysank into the teamthat I meant it.
And so they went out and developeda strategy and a roadmap to do it.
And we ended up acquiringa company called Bright,brilliant team.
And we are now up to five million jobsthat are on LinkedIn today available.
And we have roughly two anda half times that amountthat have been indexed.
And we're just stillthinking about the best wayto offer those up in an indexand make sure they're relevantand so forth and so on,scrubbing the data,deduping, all that stuff.
And we're on our way to ultimatelythe goal is to have 20 millionjobs accessible on LinkedIn.
You could do the exact same exercisewith the number of members on LinkedIn,the number of companies on LinkedIn,in terms of the skill sets,it wasn't enough for us to just identifywhich skills people needed,we ultimately believe that weshould offer up coursework,so that people could learn the skillsand we acquired a company called Lynda,which in my opinion was the last piece,fundamental piece of the building blocksthat we needed for this puzzle.
And the publishing platform startedwith 500 professional luminaries,that we called influencers,and today well north, it's probably northof 250 million people have the abilityto publish in long form on LinkedIn.
And months and months agowe surpassed a million peoplethat had actually taken the timeto publish on LinkedIn in long form.
So it's not just talking about it,it's actually coming to life,and really the only thing preventing usfor achieving that scaleat this point is time.
So that's the economic graph.
- [Reid] In time. So, here.
- [Voiceover] It's aquestion about growingor blitzscaling businesses and managingthe acquisition of a new dot com.
I believe it's much morethan selling online courses,so what's your vision for, you know,there is a convergence of industries(speaking too low to hear)How do you see this going beyond,and even more so, with the complexityof a business, or to be business,because the corporate market's huge.
- Huge, yeah.
- [Voiceover] But also the executionof that market is very different,from the execution of the consumer market,which brings a lot of, it's much moreservice oriented.
Corporations demand much more servicesthan the consumer businesses.
How do you actually scale thatand what's the vision?- [Reid] And we only havetime for a short answer,'cause I wanna do one more question,since a couple people haven't--- Short answer is a platform approachwhere Lynda evolves as a true platform,so for any enterprise, anycompany for that matterthat's developed its own repositoryof learning development materials,we want to be able toenhance those materialsby virtue of offering them through Lynda,and that could be solely and exclusivelyto the employees of that specific company,it could be to members and constituentswithin that company'secosystem, like developers,it could be to college students,that helps build the talentband of that organizationand better prepares them to actually workat that company over time,so those would be some examples.
And that platform approach wouldn'tbe exclusive to enterprises.
There are content generators,there are events, conferences,television networks,that I think are very interestedin developing learning materialsthat could also take advantage of that.
Is this the last one or you?Okay, got it.
- [Voiceover] Can you talk a little abouthow you identify talentand how you identifytalent at varying degrees,like above average, top 10%,top 5%, top 1%?- So I don't have a formulafor the percentiles per se,that would be an interesting model,sounds like somethingReid would do, by the way.
He probably has a constructin there somewherein that brain of his.
What I'm looking for depends on the role,so broadly across any role,which may be the most appropriategiven the limited amount of time.
In this day and age,I'm looking for peoplethat are to your point earlier,extremely intelligent,and not just a kind ofbroad based aptitude,or high IQ,people who can learn very quickly,people whose learningcurves are almost vertical,super steep learning curves,who love learning,who love continuous improvement,who love operating withindynamic environments,who can gain fluency quicklyin terms of new things,who enjoy synthesizing vastamounts of information,connecting dots, reaching conclusions,and sharing those conclusionsand insights with other people.
So that kind of intelligence I thinkis essential.
Looking for people who are bothpassionate about the work that we doand the work that they do,and hopefully there's alignment there,who, if they wouldn't describewhat we're doing as their dream jobs,it certainly brings them one step closerto their dream.
That kind of passion becomesa huge force multiplier and amplifiesthe ability for people to createand contribute value.
Looking for people who are compassionateto the point we were describing earlier.
Looking for people who recognizethat despite the fact that all of usare egocentric by nature,not egomaniacal, egocentric,we see the world through our own lens,people who recognize the importanceand the value of taking the timeto see the world throughsomebody else's perspectiveand who has some kind of experience,or some kind of recognition of the valueand the importance of that,and looking for people thatI look forward to working with.
You know, I got to a point in my careerwhere it's just not worth itto work with assholes,and I don't care how muchvalue they contribute,and, you know, Reiddidn't ask me a questionthat I've been asked in a numberof different settingslike this fireside chatsis what's the most valuable lessonI've learned as the CEO?And arguably the most valuable lessonI've learned, whichunfortunately I've learnedon more than one occasion,is for the baseball fans inthis section of the audience,it's leaving the pitcherin the game for too long.
So for those of you who areless familiar with baseball,the metaphor is that pitcher on the mound,potentially even a star pitcherwho's pitching a beautiful gamethrough the first five or six innings,and you can see that the fastballis losing a little bit of velocityand people are getting around on itand maybe even gettingon base a little bitand your team's still up,manager comes out and asks the pitcherhow the pitcher's doing.
And a star pitcher, what do you thinka star pitcher's gonna say?I'm doing great, skip, go sit down.
That's not the manager's job,is to just ask how the pitcher's doingand then take it verbatim and sit down.
The manager's job is to assesswhether or not the pitcheris gonna be able to win the gameand position the team to win the game.
The most valuable lesson I've learnedis once you recognize that someonemay not be the right fit forthe role that they're in,as soon as you ask yourself whether or notthey're the right fit, youalready know the answer.
The question is whatyou're gonna do about it.
And what I've learned over timeis that you have a very open, honestconstructive conversation,that's another value of ours,transparently communicate where yourexpectations are,the fact that they're notmeeting those expectationsand that you're gonna do whatever you canto help them get above that bar.
You're gonna provide them all the coachingthat they need,but you're gonna do it overa specific period of timeand you're gonna be very open with themas to whether or notyou're making progress,you're not making progress,and if they're not,in the most compassionateand constructive wayyou possibly can, youtransition them eitherto another role within the organizationor to their next playoutside of the organization.
And that is a really key partto scaling an organization,so it's not just aboutidentifying the right talentto bring into the company,it's also about assessing the talentthat you currently haveand sometimes making those hard decisions.
- And if you, I went over the back storyfor when I did the shareof the Ronan quote,if there is a question,there is no question,it was Jeff and I having this conversationactually over dinner.
And then the last thing I will say is whenJeff was describing howhe identifies talent,that was the reason,that was about 90% of the descriptionon why I actually recruitedyou to be the CEO of LinkedIn.
- [Voiceover] How many hoursdid you spend with Jeffbefore you recruited him?- [Reid] How many hours do you remember?- So it was north of 15 to 20.
It may have gone to--- [Reid] 30 plus.
- 30 overtime.
- [Reid] It was 30 plus.
- [Voiceover] You reviewedhim for 30 hours yourself?- But it wasn't, John, the key is thatfor Reid it may have been an interview,for me it was a conversation and--- [Reid] All the bestinterviews are conversations.
- Conversations,and, you know, when Ifirst joined LinkedIn,you can tell a lot aboutwhat's on people's mindsby virtue of the questions they ask you,and so I kind of keep tabs onthe most frequently asked question I get,and shortly after joining the company,by far and away the mostfrequently asked questionI got was, "So what's itlike working with Reid?"(laughs)And it was code for,what kind of drama are you experiencingby virtue of being a hired CEOand still having thefounder of the company?And what people didn't realize wasI wasn't at LinkedIn inspite of Reid being there,I was at LinkedIn in large partbecause Reid was there.
So I wanted the opportunityto work together over time,and the time that we spent togetherbefore I joined formallygave us an opportunity tobuild that relationship,and to take a lot ofwhat would normally bevery natural questions invariability and uncertainty,to some extent we wereable to really remove thatand had already developeda relationship based on trustbefore my first day on the job,so I think that, you know,that was a very positivething in retrospect.
- And the detail ofthat is in the essay ofwhen you're hiring a CEO,you're actually hiring a co-founder,which is on LinkedIn if you have interest.
And with that, let'sthank Jeff for joining us.
